
<!DOCTYPE bill
  SYSTEM "blp-dscs-billres.dtd">

   
      
         Servicemember Quality of Life Improvement and National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2025
      
   
   
      I
      118th CONGRESS
      2d Session
      H. R. 8070
      IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
      AN ACT
      To authorize appropriations for fiscal year 2025 for military activities of the Department of Defense, for military construction, and for defense activities of the Department of Energy, to prescribe military personnel strengths for such fiscal year, and for other purposes.
   
   
      Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of the United States of America in Congress assembled,
      
         1.
         SHORT TITLE
         
            (a)
            In general
            This Act may be cited as the 
                  Servicemember Quality of Life Improvement and National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2025
               .
         
         
            (b)
            Reference
            Any reference in this or any other Act to the National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2025 shall be deemed to be a reference to the Servicemember Quality of Life Improvement and National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2025.
         
      
      
         2.
         ORGANIZATION OF ACT INTO DIVISIONS; TABLE OF CONTENTS
         
            (a)
            Divisions
            This Act is organized into four divisions as follows:
            
               (1)
               Division A—Department of Defense Authorizations.
            
            
               (2)
               Division B—Military Construction Authorizations.
            
            
               (3)
               Division C—Department of Energy National Security Authorizations and Other Authorizations.
            
            
               (4)
               Division D—Funding Tables.
            
         
         
            (b)
            Table of contents
            The table of contents for this Act is as follows:
            
               Sec. 1. Short title.
               Sec. 2. Organization of Act into divisions; table of contents.
               Sec. 3. Congressional defense committees.
               Division A—DEPARTMENT OF DEFENSE AUTHORIZATIONS
               TITLE I—PROCUREMENT
               Subtitle A—Authorization of Appropriations
               Sec. 101. Authorization of appropriations.
               Subtitle B—Army Programs
               Sec. 111. Pilot program on the use of robotic targets to enhance the lethality of the reserve components of the Army.
               Sec. 112. Limitation on procurement of end items containing energetic materials pending certification on domestic production capacity.
               Sec. 113. Report on Black Hawk helicopter program.
               Sec. 114. Plan for providing certain aircraft to the Army National Guard.
               Sec. 115. Development of requirement for shipping container production facility at domestic Army installation.
               Subtitle C—Navy Programs
               Sec. 131. Modification of annual report on cost targets for certain aircraft carriers.
               Sec. 132. Procurement authorities for certain amphibious shipbuilding programs.
               Sec. 133. Multiyear procurement authority for CH–53K aircraft and T408 engines.
               Sec. 134. Recapitalization of tactical fighter aircraft of the Navy Reserve.
               Sec. 135. Designation of official responsible for autonomous surface and underwater dual-modality vehicles.
               Sec. 136. Limitation on availability of funds for Medium Landing Ship pending certification and report.
               Sec. 137. Limitation on structural improvements and electrical power upgrades for AH–1Z and UH–1Y helicopters.
               Sec. 138. Sense of Congress on aircraft carrier procurement.
               Subtitle D—Air Force Programs
               Sec. 151. Modification of minimum inventory requirement for air refueling tanker aircraft.
               Sec. 152. Modification of certain primary mission aircraft inventory requirements for the combat air forces of the Air Force.
               Sec. 153. Extension of requirements relating to C–130 aircraft.
               Sec. 154. Limitation on retirement of F–15E aircraft pending fighter aircraft capabilities and requirements study.
               Sec. 155. Limitation on use of funds pending submission of report on plan for long-term Air Force fighter force structure.
               Sec. 156. Recapitalization of air refueling tanker aircraft of the reserve components of the Air Force.
               Sec. 157. Consolidation of authorities relating to Air Force landing gear.
               Sec. 158. Notification of delays in delivery of MH–139 aircraft.
               Sec. 159. Plan for establishment and maintenance of F–16 simulators at Air National Guard training centers.
               Sec. 160. Funding for C-130 modular airborne firefighting system.
               Sec. 161. Requirement for minimum number of air logistics complexes.
               Subtitle E—Defense-wide, Joint, and Multiservice Matters
               Sec. 171. Modification to Air Force and Navy use of commercial dual-use parts in certain aircraft and engines.
               Sec. 172. Policy on qualifications of contractors for into-plane fuel deliveries for heavy-lift aircraft.
               Sec. 173. Prohibition on operation, procurement, and contracting related to foreign-made light detection and ranging technology.
               Sec. 174. Limitation on procurement of F–35 aircraft pending certification on improvements and correction of deficiencies.
               Sec. 175. Assessment of air-to-air missile inventory requirements and related capabilities.
               Sec. 176. Modification to multiyear procurement authority for certain critical minerals.
               Sec. 177. Sense of Congress on domestic procurement of defense articles for AUKUS partnership.
               Sec. 178. Study to identify sources of secure parts for unmanned aircraft systems.
               TITLE II—RESEARCH, DEVELOPMENT, TEST, AND EVALUATION
               Subtitle A—Authorization of Appropriations
               Sec. 201. Authorization of appropriations.
               Sec. 202. Funding for National Defense Education Program.
               Subtitle B—Program Requirements, Restrictions, and Limitations
               Sec. 211. Modification of certain requirements relating to the Joint Energetics Transition Office.
               Sec. 212. Modification to annual report on unfunded priorities of the Under Secretary of Defense for Research and Engineering.
               Sec. 213. Modification to defense laboratory education partnerships.
               Sec. 214. Use of partnership intermediaries to promote defense research and education.
               Sec. 215. Modification to personnel management authority to attract experts in science and engineering.
               Sec. 216. Modification to consortium on use of additive manufacturing for defense capability development.
               Sec. 217. Modification to continuous capability development and delivery program for F–35 aircraft.
               Sec. 218. Modification of CVN–73 to support fielding of MQ–25 unmanned aerial vehicle.
               Sec. 219. Agility Prime Transition Working Group.
               Sec. 220. Measures to advance quantum information science within the Department of Defense.
               Sec. 221. Authority to temporarily detail employees of the Office of Strategic Capital to certain private-sector organizations.
               Sec. 222. Pilot program on establishment of a test and evaluation cell within the Defense Innovation Unit.
               Sec. 223. Dismantlement of Chinese drone aircraft of to identify the origin of components and security vulnerabilities.
               Sec. 224. Program on limited objective experimentation in support of Air Force operations.
               Sec. 225. Prohibition on contracts between certain foreign entities and institutions of higher education conducting Department of Defense-funded research.
               Sec. 226. Limitation on availability of funds for fundamental research collaboration with certain institutions.
               Sec. 227. Disclosure requirements for persons performing research or development projects for the Department of Defense.
               Sec. 228. Modification to innovators information repository in the Department of Defense.
               Sec. 229. Prohibition on availability of funds for canine and feline research.
               Sec. 230. Expansion of participation in the Digital On-Demand Program.
               Subtitle C—Plans, Reports, and Other Matters
               Sec. 241. Plan for establishment of secure computing and data storage environment for testing of artificial intelligence trained on biological data.
               Sec. 242. Study and report on foreign capital disclosure requirements of certain Department of Defense organizations.
               Sec. 243. Biotechnology roadmap.
               Sec. 244. Authority for Secretary of Defense to enter into an agreement for an assessment of biotechnology capabilities of adversaries of the United States.
               Sec. 245. Sense of Congress on research and development of solid rocket motor mixing technology and the missile industrial base.
               Sec. 246. Funding for demonstration of high-pressure waterjet cut and capture system to demilitarize underwater munitions.
               Sec. 247. Modification to artificial intelligence education strategy.
               Sec. 248. Report on artificial intelligence workforce of the Department of Defense.
               Sec. 249. Increase in funding for high-hypersonic detonation propulsion research and technology.
               Sec. 250. Increase in funding for adaptive and intelligent adversary-threat models.
               Sec. 251. Funding for surface and shallow water mine counter-measures.
               Sec. 252. Report on potential inclusion of Israel in the national technology and industrial base.
               Sec. 253. Plan on hacking for defense expansion.
               Sec. 254. Report on potential strategic partnership between the Defense Innovation Unit and the Taiwan Ministry of National Defense.
               Sec. 255. Sense of Congress on the continuing need for innovation in the Armed Forces.
               Sec. 256. Funding for alternative domestic source C-130J IRSS.
               Sec. 257. Funding for virtual engineering for army readiness and sustainment.
               Sec. 258. Funding for humanitarian airborne mobile infrastructure capability.
               Sec. 259. Funding for fuel cell multi-modular use utilizing hydrogen.
               TITLE III—OPERATION AND MAINTENANCE
               Subtitle A—Authorization of Appropriations
               Sec. 301. Authorization of appropriations.
               Subtitle B—Energy and Environment
               Sec. 311. Extension of requirement to establish a schedule of black start exercises to assess the energy resilience and energy security of military installations.
               Sec. 312. Extension of prohibition on required disclosure.
               Sec. 313. Modifications to pilot program on use of sustainable aviation fuel.
               Sec. 314. Modification of temporary moratorium on incineration by Department of Defense of perfluoroalkyl substances, polyfluoroalkyl substances, and aqueous film forming foam.
               Sec. 315. Initiative to control and combat the spread of coconut rhinoceros beetle in Hawaii.
               Sec. 316. Review and plan regarding biosecurity protocols for Hawaii.
               Sec. 317. Pilot program to install propane-powered generators at a domestic defense industrial base facility.
               Sec. 318. Prohibition on implementation of regulation relating to minimizing risk of climate change.
               Sec. 319. Stormwater discharge permits for Department of Defense facilities.
               Sec. 320. Extension of period for cooperative agreements under Native American lands environmental mitigation program.
               Subtitle C—Logistics and Sustainment
               Sec. 331. Plans regarding condition and maintenance of prepositioned stockpiles of Navy, Air Force, and Marine Corps.
               Sec. 332. Pilot program on improving marine corps supply chain and logistics through the integration of artificial intelligence and machine learning software solutions.
               Sec. 333. Responsiveness testing of Defense Logistics Agency pharmaceutical contracts.
               Sec. 334. Investment plan for Department of Defense depots and industrial facilities.
               Subtitle D—Studies and Reports
               Sec. 341. Joint Safety Council report and briefing requirements.
               Sec. 342. Change in timeframe for report on ability of Department of Defense to meet requirements for energy resilience and energy security measures on military installations.
               Sec. 343. Modifications to Comptroller General annual reviews of F–35 sustainment efforts.
               Sec. 344. Study on firefighter rapid intervention team training and equipment at Department of Defense facilities.
               Sec. 345. Joint Safety Council review of Comptroller General report on fatigue of members of the Armed Forces.
               Sec. 346. Study on use and presence of toxic chemicals in Panama Canal Zone.
               Sec. 347. Report on wildfire fighting capabilities of the Department of Defense in Hawaii.
               Sec. 348. Briefing on Army organizational clothing and equipment used in cold and extreme cold weather environments.
               Subtitle E—Other Matters
               Sec. 351. Expanded license reciprocity for Department of Defense veterinarians.
               Sec. 352. Provision of sports foods and third-party certified dietary supplements to members of the Armed Forces.
               Sec. 353. Funding for base support.
               Sec. 354. Availability of operation and maintenance appropriations for software.
               TITLE IV—MILITARY PERSONNEL AUTHORIZATIONS
               Subtitle A—Active Forces
               Sec. 401. End strengths for active forces.
               Subtitle B—Reserve Forces
               Sec. 411. End strengths for Selected Reserve.
               Sec. 412. End strengths for Reserves on active duty in support of the Reserves.
               Sec. 413. End strengths for military technicians (dual status).
               Sec. 414. Maximum number of reserve personnel authorized to be on active duty for operational support.
               Subtitle C—Authorization of Appropriations
               Sec. 421. Military personnel.
               Subtitle D—Reports
               Sec. 431. Annual defense manpower profile report: expansion of justifications for end strengths.
               TITLE V—MILITARY PERSONNEL POLICY
               Subtitle A—Officer Policy
               Sec. 501. Grade of Surgeon General of the Navy.
               Sec. 502. Redistribution of general officers of the Marine Corps on active duty.
               Sec. 503. Removal of exemption relating to Attending Physician to the Congress for certain distribution and grade limitations.
               Sec. 504. Authority to exclude additional positions from limitations on the number of general officers and flag officers on active duty.
               Sec. 505. Modification to grade of Attending Physician to the Congress.
               Sec. 506. Authority to separate a regular officer after a board of inquiry recommends retaining such officer.
               Sec. 507. Inclusion of service in SROTC in the computation of length of service of an officer appointed for completing SROTC.
               Sec. 508. Improvements relating to Medical Officer of the Marine Corps position.
               Sec. 509. Repeal of requirement of one year of active duty service for original appointment as a warrant officer in the Department of the Air Force.
               Sec. 509A. Pilot program on peer and subordinate evaluations of certain officers.
               Subtitle B—Reserve Component Management
               Sec. 511. Grades of certain chiefs of reserve components.
               Sec. 512. Expansion of authority to continue reserve officers in certain military specialties on the reserve active-status list.
               Sec. 513. Feasibility of establishing a unit of the National Guard in American Samoa and in the Commonwealth of the Northern Mariana Islands.
               Sec. 514. Amendment to extend time period for transfer or discharge of certain army and air force reserve component general officers.
               Subtitle C—General Service Authorities and Military Records
               Sec. 521. Transfer to the Space Force of covered space functions of the Air National Guard of the United States.
               Sec. 522. Authority to designate certain separated members of the Air Force as honorary separated members of the Space Force.
               Sec. 523. Merit-based principles for military personnel decisions in the Department of Defense.
               Sec. 524. Next of kin of deceased members of certain Armed Forces: database; privacy.
               Sec. 525. Marine Corps permeability pilot program.
               Sec. 526. Restoration of retired rank of General John D. Lavelle.
               Sec. 527. Prohibition of requirement in the Department of Defense to wear a mask to stop the spread of COVID-19.
               Sec. 528. Elimination of offices of diversity, equity, and inclusion and personnel of such offices.
               Sec. 529. Posthumous commission as captain in the regular Army for Milton Holland.
               Sec. 529A. Authorization of members awarded certain decorations to wear the uniform when not on active duty.
               Sec. 529B. Review of adverse action against a chaplain who requested exemption from the COVID-19 vaccination mandate.
               Subtitle D—Recruitment
               Sec. 531. Selective Service System: automatic registration.
               Sec. 532. Prohibition on cannabis testing for enlistment or commission in certain Armed Forces.
               Sec. 533. Reimbursement of applicants to certain Armed Forces for certain medical costs incurred during military entrance processing.
               Sec. 534. Modernization of recruitment for the Army.
               Sec. 535 Recruitment strategy for members of the Armed Forces who were discharged or dismissed on the sole basis of failure to obey a lawful order to receive a vaccine for COVID-19.
               Sec. 536. Program of military recruitment and education at the National September 11 Memorial and Museum.
               Sec. 537. Military recruiter physical access to campuses.
               Sec. 538. Improving oversight of military recruitment practices in public secondary schools.
               Sec. 539. Expansion of report on future servicemember preparatory course.
               Subtitle E—Member Training and Education
               Sec. 541. Increase to maximum funding for the Regional Defense Fellowship Program.
               Sec. 542. Expansion of international engagement authorities for Service Academies.
               Sec. 543. Reduction to minimum number of participating students required to establish or maintain a unit of JROTC.
               Sec. 544. Number of foreign military medical students who may attend Uniformed Services University of the Health Sciences under an exchange program.
               Sec. 545. Professional military education: technical correction to definitions.
               Sec. 546. Authority to accept gifts of services for professional military education institutions.
               Sec. 547. Service Academies: appointments and additional appointees.
               Sec. 548. Alternative service obligation for a cadet or midshipman who becomes a professional athlete.
               Sec. 549. Service Academies: Boards of Visitors.
               Sec. 549A. Inclusion of certain information in annual military service academy reports.
               Sec. 549B. Naval Postgraduate School: function.
               Sec. 549C. Required training on Constitution of the United States for commissioned officers of the Armed Forces.
               Sec. 549D. Ensuring access to certain higher education benefits.
               Sec. 549E. Service Academies: referral of denied applicants to the senior military colleges.
               Sec. 549F. Pilot program to provide graduate education opportunities for enlisted members of the Army and Navy.
               Sec. 549G. Air Force rapid response language pilot program.
               Sec. 549H. Military training and competency database.
               Sec. 549I. Military vehicle operator training program.
               Sec. 549J. Speech disorders of cadets and midshipmen.
               Sec. 549K. Annual training on the prevention of sexual abuse for students in the Junior Reserve Officers' Training Corps.
               Sec. 549L. Expansion of authority to detail members to law education programs.
               Sec. 549M. Dive school required element of qualification as a combat controller of the Air Force.
               Subtitle F—Military Justice and Other Legal Matters
               Sec. 551. Authority of special trial counsel with respect to certain offenses occurring before effective date of military justice reforms.
               Sec. 552. Detailing of appellate defense counsel.
               Sec. 553. Modification to offense of aiding the enemy under the Uniform Code of Military Justice.
               Sec. 554. Modification of timeline for potential implementation of study on unanimous court-martial verdicts.
               Sec. 555. Expanded command notifications to victims of domestic violence.
               Sec. 556. Prohibiting the broadcast and distribution of digitally manipulated intimate images.
               Sec. 557. Treatment of certain records of criminal investigations.
               Sec. 558. Recommendations for revisions to Military Rules of Evidence to protect patient privacy.
               Sec. 559. Correction of certain citations in title 18, United States Code, relating to sexual offenses.
               Subtitle G—Member Transition
               Sec. 561. Modifications to Transition Assistance Program.
               Sec. 562. Minimum duration of preseparation counseling regarding financial planning.
               Sec. 563. Transition Assistance Program: presentation in preseparation counseling to promote benefits available to veterans.
               Sec. 564. Establishment of counseling pathway in the Transition Assistance Program for members of certain reserve components of the Armed Forces.
               Sec. 565. Pathway for individualized counseling for members of the reserve components under TAP.
               Sec. 566. Transition Assistance Program: Department of Labor Employment Navigator and Partnership Pilot Program.
               Sec. 567. Pilot program on secure, mobile personal health record for members of the Armed Forces participating in the Transition Assistance Program.
               Sec. 568. Skillbridge: apprenticeship programs.
               Sec. 569. Transmission of information regarding member’s opioid use disorder to Department of Veterans Affairs.
               Sec. 569A. Report on the number of veterans who have their military acquired credentials recognized at the State-level for the civilian workforce.
               Sec. 569B. Training and internships for transitioning members through institutions of higher education.
               Sec. 569C. Opt-out sharing of information on members retiring or separating from the Armed Forces with community-based organizations and related entities.
               Sec. 569D. Addressing mental health issues in the Transition Assistance Program of the Department of Defense and the Solid Start program of the Department of Veterans Affairs.
               Sec. 569E. Amendments to pathways for counseling in Transition Assistance Program.
               Sec. 569F. Records of a separating member: provision of electronic copies.
               Sec. 569G. Skillbridge for the submarine industrial base.
               Subtitle H—Family Programs, Child Care, and Dependent Education
               Sec. 571. Staffing of Department of Defense Education Activity schools to maintain maximum student-to-teacher ratios.
               Sec. 572. Improvements to certain schools of the Department of Defense Education Activity.
               Sec. 573. Prohibition on diversity, equity, and inclusion policy bodies for DODEA schools.
               Sec. 574. DoDEA overseas transfer program.
               Sec. 575. Certain assistance to local educational agencies that benefit dependents of military and civilian personnel.
               Sec. 576. Verification of reporting of eligible federally connected children for purposes of Federal impact aid programs.
               Sec. 577. Pilot program to establish inclusive playgrounds for military families enrolled in Exceptional Family Member Program of the Department of Defense.
               Sec. 578. Parental right to notice of student nonproficiency in reading or language arts.
               Sec. 579. Instruction in artificial intelligence and machine learning in schools operated by the Department of Defense Education Activity.
               Sec. 579A. GAO study on child care services provided or paid for by the Department of Defense.
               Sec. 579B. Prohibition on availability of funds for certain materials in schools operated by the Department of Defense Education Activity.
               Sec. 579C. Prohibitions on provision of gender transition services through an Exceptional Family Member Program of the Armed Forces.
               Sec. 579D. Report on separating members who have health care experience and Medical Reserve Corps.
               Sec. 579E. Prohibition of TikTok.
               Sec. 579F. Report on effectiveness of the exceptional family member program.
               Sec. 579G. Study on high-impact tutoring in DoDEA schools.
               Subtitle I—Decorations and Awards
               Sec. 581. Authorization for award of Medal of Honor to E. Royce Williams for acts of valor during the Korean War.
               Sec. 582. Authorization for award of the Medal of Honor to Thomas H. Griffin for acts of valor as a member of the Army during the Vietnam War.
               Sec. 583. Authorization for award of Medal of Honor to James Capers, Jr. for acts of valor as a member of the Marine Corps during the Vietnam War.
               Sec. 584. Authorization of award of medal of honor to Gregory McManus for acts of valor.
               Sec. 585. Authorization for Last Servicemember Standing medal.
               Sec. 586. Eligibility of veterans of Operation End Sweep for Vietnam Service Medal.
               Sec. 587. Authorization of award of medal of honor to Joseph M. Perez for acts of valor as a member of the Army during the Vietnam War.
               Sec. 588. Authorization of award of Medal of Honor to Juan Ogo Blaz for acts of valor while serving as a member of the Army during the Vietnam War.
               Sec. 589. Authorization of award of Medal of Honor to Martin A. Maglona for acts of valor while serving as a member of the Army during the Vietnam War.
               Subtitle J—Other Personnel Matters, Reports, and Briefings
               Sec. 591. Modification to annual reports on racial and ethnic demographics in the military justice system.
               Sec. 592. Provision of information regarding Federal service to certain persons determined not qualified to enlist in certain Armed Forces.
               Sec. 593. Modernization of dress codes and policies on military installations during non-working and non-duty status hours.
               Sec. 594. Pilot program to allow members in the Department of the Air Force to grow beards.
               Sec. 595. Female members of certain Armed Forces and civilian employees of the Department of Defense in STEM.
               Sec. 596. Study on benefits of standardizing policies regarding basic allowance for housing and family housing eligibility for members of the Armed Forces serving on active duty who are unaccompanied and pregnant.
               Sec. 597. Study and report on reforms to certain grace periods under Transition Assistance Program of the Department of Defense.
               Sec. 598. Sense of Congress regarding military service by individuals with amputations.
               Sec. 599. Report on National Guard sexual assault and response prevention training.
               Sec. 599A. Commercial transition for military aviation mechanics.
               Sec. 599B. Entrepreneurship program for servicemembers.
               Sec. 599C. Defense Advisory Committee on Diversity and Inclusion; report.
               Sec. 599D. Report on integration of chaplains into activities in the Indo-Pacific region.
               TITLE VI—COMPENSATION AND OTHER PERSONNEL BENEFITS
               Subtitle A—Basic Pay, Retired Pay, and Leave
               Sec. 601. Policy on postpartum physical fitness tests and body composition assessments.
               Sec. 602. Extension of parental leave to members of the Coast Guard Reserve.
               Sec. 603. Prohibition on exposing members of the Armed Forces to Chinese military company investments through the Thrift Savings Plan.
               Sec. 604. Elimination of cap on additional retired pay for extraordinary heroism for members of the Army and Air Force who served during the Vietnam Era.
               Sec. 605. Expansion of bereavement leave.
               Sec. 606. Program to assist service members at risk of suicide.
               Subtitle B—Bonus and Incentive Pays
               Sec. 611. Incentive pay: explosive ordnance disposal duty.
               Sec. 612. One-year extension of certain expiring bonus and special pay authorities.
               Sec. 613.  Assignment incentive pay for members assigned to Creech Air Force Base and Naval Air Station Fallon.
               Subtitle C—Allowances
               Sec. 621. Basic needs allowance: exclusion of basic allowance for housing from the calculation of gross household income of an eligible member of the Armed Forces.
               Sec. 622. Basic allowance for housing: pilot program to outsource rate calculation.
               Sec. 623. Travel and transportation allowances: prohibition of requirement of zero-emission vehicle.
               Sec. 624. Sense of Congress on increase to the family separation allowance.
               Subtitle D—Family and Survivor Benefits
               Sec. 631. Expansion of eligibility for certain benefits that arise from the death of a member of the Armed Forces.
               Sec. 632. Payment instead of reimbursement for the transportation of certain remains to two locations if the second location is a national cemetery.
               Sec. 633. Information regarding paternal engagement on website of Military OneSource.
               Sec. 634. Military OneSource for a remarried surviving spouse of a deceased member of the Armed Forces: eligibility; information.
               Sec. 635. Guide for survivors to claim the personal effects of a deceased member of the Armed Forces.
               Sec. 636. Adoption or guardianship assistance for members of the Armed Forces and veterans.
               Sec. 637. Expansion of period of availability of Military OneSource program for retired and discharged members of the Armed Forces and their immediate families.
               Subtitle E—Defense Resale Matters
               Sec. 641. Commissary and exchange benefits: expansion for surviving children of members of the uniformed services.
               Sec. 642. Single-use shopping bags in commissary stores.
               Sec. 643. Sale of certain supplies of the Navy and Marine Corps to certain former members of the Coast Guard.
               Sec. 644. MWR retail facilities: use by civilian employees of the Armed Forces.
               Sec. 645. Prohibition on sale of goods from companies engaged in an anti-Israel boycott.
               Subtitle F—Other Benefits, Reports, and Briefings
               Sec. 651. Promotion of tax preparation assistance programs.
               Sec. 652. Pilot program to inform members about certain insurance products.
               TITLE VII—HEALTH CARE PROVISIONS
               Subtitle A—TRICARE and Other Health Benefits
               Sec. 701. Assisted reproductive technology for certain members of the Armed Forces and their dependents under TRICARE.
               Sec. 702. TRICARE dental plan for the Selected Reserve.
               Sec. 703. Extension of effective date regarding certain improvements to the TRICARE dental program.
               Sec. 704. Licensure requirement for certain health care professionals providing certain examinations to members of the reserve components.
               Sec. 705. Expansion of Wounded Warrior Service Dog Program.
               Sec. 706. Reimbursements under the TRICARE program to cancer and children’s hospitals for outpatient care of beneficiaries.
               Sec. 707. Notices to a dependent child regarding impending loss of coverage under TRICARE program.
               Sec. 708. Pilot program to treat pregnancy as a qualifying event for enrollment in TRICARE Select.
               Sec. 709. Pilot program to prevent perinatal mental health conditions in pregnant and postpartum members of the Armed Forces and covered beneficiaries.
               Sec. 710. Pilot program on cryopreservation and storage of gametes of certain members of the Armed Forces.
               Sec. 711. Temporary requirement for contraception coverage parity under the TRICARE program.
               Sec. 712. TRICARE coverage for increased supply for contraception.
               Sec. 713. Prohibition on coverage of certain gender transition procedures and related services under TRICARE program.
               Sec. 714. Prohibition on payment and reimbursement by Department of Defense of expenses relating to abortion services.
               Subtitle B—Health Care Administration
               Sec. 721. Identification in patient medical records of affiliation of certain non-Department of Defense health care providers.
               Sec. 722. Mandatory training on health effects of perfluoroalkyl or poly­fluor­o­al­kyl substances.
               Sec. 723. Treatments for acute radiation syndrome incurred by overseas personnel: procurement; pre-positioning.
               Sec. 724. Partnerships with civilian organizations for arthroscopic surgical training.
               Sec. 725. Women’s heart health educational material: development; distribution.
               Sec. 726. Protocol on use of oral rehydration solution.
               Sec. 727. Study on lifting outpatient rehabilitation therapy maximums.
               Sec. 728. Traumatic brain injury oversight strategy and action plan.
               Sec. 729. Expansion of recognition by the Defense Health Agency of certifying bodies for physicians.
               Sec. 729A. Improvements to TRICARE provider directories.
               Sec. 729B. Combating obesity in certain Armed Forces.
               Sec. 729C. Podiatrists in the Department of Defense.
               Sec. 729D. Report on medical instrument sterilization.
               Subtitle C—Studies, Briefings, Reports, and Other Matters
               Sec. 731. Blast pressure safety and brain health.
               Sec. 732. Study on testosterone levels of members of Army special operations forces.
               Sec. 733. Report on use of Agent Orange on Guam.
               Sec. 734. Requirements study and strategy for combat medical support during crisis or conflict in the Indo-Pacific.
               Sec. 735. Report on access of TRICARE beneficiaries to network retail pharmacies.
               Sec. 736. Report on copayments for mental or behavioral health care under TRICARE.
               Sec. 737. Pilot program to test standalone technology to improve efficiencies in supply-chain management, medical readiness, and medical processes.
               Sec. 738. Pilot program on pre-programming of suicide prevention resources into smart devices issued to members of the Armed Forces.
               Sec. 739. Report on rate of maternal mortality among members of the Armed Forces.
               Sec. 740. Annual review and update of online information relating to suicide prevention.
               Sec. 741. Report on emergency and trauma care for civilians at military treatment facilities.
               Sec. 742. Study on blood work of members of the Armed Forces regarding COVID-19.
               Sec. 743. Report on approving certain transitional and residential brain injury treatment programs.
               Sec. 744. Study and report on mental health care for pilots and aviators.
               Sec. 745. Study on tools to diagnose traumatic brain injury in members of the Armed Forces.
               Sec. 746. Study on use of routine neuroimaging modalities in diagnosis, treatment, and prevention of brain injury due to blast pressure exposure during combat and training.
               Sec. 747. Clarification of responsibilities regarding the integrated disability evaluation system.
               Sec. 748. Study on accessibility of mental health care providers and services for active duty members of the Armed Forces.
               Sec. 749. Requirement to maintain prescription drop boxes at military installations.
               Sec. 750. Withholding of funds for failure to submit reports on health conditions of members of the Armed Forces on active duty developed after administration of COVID-19 vaccine.
               Sec. 751. Health care strategy for members who perform duty in a cold weather location.
               Sec. 752. Study on increased telehealth services of the Defense Health Agency.
               Sec. 753. Annual report on implementation of naloxone distribution.
               Sec. 754. Funding for Defense Health Programs for education and training.
               TITLE VIII—ACQUISITION POLICY, ACQUISITION MANAGEMENT, AND RELATED MATTERS
               Subtitle A—Acquisition Policy and Management
               Sec. 801. Streamlining of Milestone B requirements.
               Sec. 802. Prohibition on contracting with covered entities that contract with lobbyists for Chinese military companies.
               Sec. 803. Notice of contract cancellation or termination relating to remote or isolated installations.
               Sec. 804. Procurement of cleaning products.
               Sec. 805. No conflicts of interest for fuel services financial management contracts.
               Sec. 806. Prohibition on certain transportation contracts.
               Sec. 807. Prohibition on Department of Defense Procurement from Companies Providing Semiconductors and Semiconductor-Related Products to Huawei.
               Sec. 808. Updated guidance on planning for global demand.
               Sec. 809. Prohibition on contracting with shipyards controlled by a foreign adversary.
               Sec. 809A. Budget recommendations for multiyear procurement of priority items.
               Sec. 809B. Prohibition on certain Chinese e-commerce purchases.
               Sec. 809C. Prohibition and report on contracts for online tutoring services.
               Sec. 809D. Review panel on fair and reasonable pricing and contract oversight.
               Subtitle B—Amendments to General Contracting Authorities, Procedures, and Limitations
               Sec. 811. Modification to exception for submission of certified cost or pricing data for certain components and parts of commercial products.
               Sec. 812. Application of recent price history and purchase orders to truthful cost or pricing data requirements.
               Sec. 813. Elimination of late cost and pricing data submission defense.
               Sec. 814. Clarification of other transaction authority for follow on production.
               Sec. 815. Clarification of other transaction authority for facility repair.
               Sec. 816. Special operations forces procurement authority.
               Sec. 817. Avoidance of use of lowest price technically acceptable source selection criteria for procurement of munitions response services.
               Sec. 818. Extension of temporary authority to modify certain contracts and options based on the effects of inflation.
               Sec. 819. Limitation on availability of funds for chiller class projects of the Department of the Air Force.
               Sec. 820. Regulations applicable to combat footwear of members of all branches of the armed forces.
               Sec. 821. Addition of domestically produced stainless steel flatware to the requirement to buy certain articles from American sources.
               Subtitle C—Provisions Relating to Workforce Development
               Sec. 831. Updated Adaptive Acquisition Framework training.
               Sec. 832. Performance incentives related to commercial product and commercial service determinations.
               Sec. 833. Autonomous unmanned aerial system acquisition pathways.
               Sec. 834. Pilot program for program management offices to compete in rehabilitating at-risk programs.
               Subtitle D—Provisions Relating to Supply Chains and Domestic Sourcing
               Sec. 841. Enhancing requirements for information relating to supply chain risk.
               Sec. 842. Amendment to requirement to buy strategic materials critical to national security from American sources.
               Sec. 843. Modification to miscellaneous limitations on the procurement of goods other than United States goods.
               Sec. 844. Risk management for Department of Defense pharmaceutical supply chains.
               Sec. 845. Inclusion of recycled materials in domestic preference for strategic and critical materials.
               Sec. 846. Report relating to certain domestic nonavailability determinations.
               Sec. 847. Supply chain illumination.
               Sec. 848. Study on use of off-the-shelf information technology products from foreign adversary countries.
               Subtitle E—Industrial Base Matters
               Sec. 851. Entrepreneurial Innovation Project designations.
               Sec. 852. Modification to procurement requirements relating to rare earth elements and strategic and critical materials.
               Sec. 853. Update and extend the authorization of distribution support and services for contractors program.
               Sec. 854. Procurement of covered hearing protection devices.
               Sec. 855. Procurement of secure lithium-ion batteries.
               Sec. 856. Impact assessment of Manufacturing Innovation Institutes on the defense industrial base.
               Sec. 857. Report on competition and equipment repair.
               Subtitle F—Small Business Matters
               Sec. 861. Department of Defense contracting goals for small business concerns owned and controlled by veterans.
               Sec. 862. Participation of military research and educational institutions in the STTR program.
               Sec. 863. Training on increasing Federal contract awards to small business concerns owned and controlled by service-disabled veterans.
               Sec. 864. Accessibility and clarity in covered notices for small business concerns.
               Sec. 865. Expansion of pilot program for access to shared classified commercial infrastructure.
               Sec. 866. Memorandum of understanding relating to Department of Defense critical technology area opportunities for small business concerns.
               Sec. 867. COLLABORATE Memorandum of Understanding Report.
               Sec. 868. Modification to initiatives to support small businesses in the national technology and industrial base.
               Sec. 869. Boots to Business Program.
               Sec. 869A. Report on bundled contracts of the Department of Defense.
               Subtitle G—Other Matters
               Sec. 871. Clarification of waiver authority for organizational and consultant conflicts of interest.
               Sec. 872. Pilot program on payment of costs for denied Government Accountability Office bid protests.
               Sec. 873. Promulgate guidance relating to certain Department of Defense contracts.
               Sec. 874. Framework for the efficient and secure procurement of food service products.
               Sec. 875. Plan for identifying and replacing syringes of concern.
               Sec. 876. Report on domestic sites for rare earth element mining.
               Sec. 877. Prohibition on entering into contracts with a person engaged in a boycott of the State of Israel.
               Sec. 878. Implementation of GAO recommendations relating to spare parts in global spares pool relating to F-35 Program.
               Sec. 879. Open interface standards for contracts of the Department of Defense.
               Sec. 880. Assessment of compliance with Global Household Goods Contract requirements.
               Sec. 881. Reports on national security risks.
               Sec. 882. Prohibition on funding for covered entities and nonprofit organizations or other entities that engage in covered behavior.
               Sec. 883. Prohibitions relating to covered distributed ledger technology and blockchain equipment or services.
               Sec. 884. Report on contract goal for the AbilityOne program.
               Sec. 885. Report on small purchases of critical minerals and magnets.
               Sec. 886. Limitation on availability of funds for installation of photovoltaic modules.
               Sec. 887. Study and report on shipping containers and specialty shipping containers.
               TITLE IX—DEPARTMENT OF DEFENSE ORGANIZATION AND MANAGEMENT
               Subtitle A—Office of the Secretary of Defense and Related Matters
               Sec. 901. Chief Talent Management Officer.
               Sec. 902. Executive agent for countering threats posed by small unmanned aircraft.
               Sec. 903. Elimination of the Chief Diversity Officer of the Department of Defense.
               Subtitle B—Other Department of Defense Organization and Management Matters
               Sec. 921. Designation of senior officials responsible for contested logistics posture management.
               Sec. 922. Eligibility of Chief of the National Guard Bureau for appointment as Chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff.
               Sec. 923. Designation of Deputy Under Secretary of the Army as principal official responsible for explosive ordnance disposal.
               Sec. 924. Establishment of the Drone Corps as a basic branch of the Army.
               Sec. 925. Army Electronic Warfare Center of Excellence.
               Sec. 926. Codification of additional staff corps of the Navy.
               Sec. 927. Feasibility report on establishment of a Defense Industrial Revitalization Board.
               Sec. 928. Inclusion of Mexico in the area of responsibility of the United States Southern Command.
               Sec. 929. Membership of Commandant of the Coast Guard on the Joint Chiefs of Staff.
               Sec. 930. Department of Defense Senior Intelligence Oversight Official.
               TITLE X—GENERAL PROVISIONS
               Subtitle A—Financial Matters
               Sec. 1001. General transfer authority.
               Sec. 1002. Revision of Department of Defense financial management regulation.
               Sec. 1003. Cross-functional team for implementation of recommendations of the Commission on Planning, Programming, Budgeting, and Execution Reform.
               Sec. 1004. Congressional notification of transfer of funds.
               Sec. 1005. Department of Defense spending reductions in absence of submitted financial statements or failure to achieve unqualified or qualified independent audit opinion.
               Sec. 1006. Oversight requirements for Financial Improvement and Audit Remediation Plan.
               Sec. 1006A. Use of technology using artificial intelligence to facilitate audit of the financial statements of the Department of Defense for fiscal year 2025.
               Subtitle B—Counterdrug Activities
               Sec. 1007. Modification to types of support for counterdrug activities and activities to counter transnational organized crime.
               Sec. 1008. Support for counterdrug activities affecting flow of drugs into United States.
               Sec. 1009. Report on Department of Defense operational planning to defeat Mexican drug cartels.
               Sec. 1010. Modification to types of support for counterdrug activities and activities to counter transnational organized crime.
               Sec. 1010A. Sale or donation of excess Department of Defense personal property for drug surveillance and interdiction.
               Subtitle C—Naval Vessels and Shipyards
               Sec. 1011. Assessment required in the event of a proposed reduction in battle force ships as part of the annual naval vessel construction plan and certification.
               Sec. 1012. Minimum number of public naval shipyards.
               Sec. 1013. Modifications to ship repair authorities.
               Sec. 1014. Congressional certification required prior to start of construction on first ship of a shipbuilding program.
               Sec. 1015. Assessments required prior to start of construction on first ship of a shipbuilding program.
               Sec. 1016. Exception to prohibition of overhaul, repair, or maintenance of certain vessels in shipyards outside the United States or Guam.
               Sec. 1017. Strategy on development of naval rearm at sea capability.
               Sec. 1018. Authority to use incremental funding to enter into a contract for the construction of a Virginia-class submarine.
               Sec. 1019. Pilot program on use of automated inspection technologies at shipyards.
               Sec. 1020. Prohibition on availability of funds for retirement of guided missile cruisers.
               Sec. 1021. Sense of Congress regarding naming warships after Navy Medal of Honor recipients.
               Sec. 1022. Study related to recruitment and retention of apprentices at public shipyards.
               Sec. 1023. Sense of Congress regarding naming of naval vessel after Lieutenant General Richard E. Carey.
               Sec. 1024. Sense of Congress regarding naming of naval vessel after Major James Capers, Jr..
               Sec. 1025. Sense of Congress regarding naming a naval vessel after William B. Gould.
               Subtitle D—Counterterrorism
               Sec. 1031. Extension of prohibition on use of funds for transfer or release of individuals detained at United States Naval Station, Guantanamo Bay, Cuba, to the United States.
               Sec. 1032. Extension of prohibition on use of funds to construct or modify facilities in the United States to house detainees transferred from United States Naval Station, Guantanamo Bay, Cuba.
               Sec. 1033. Extension of prohibition on use of funds for transfer or release of individuals detained at United States Naval Station, Guantanamo Bay, Cuba, to certain countries.
               Sec. 1034. Extension of prohibition on use of funds to close or relinquish control of United States Naval Station, Guantanamo Bay, Cuba.
               Subtitle E—Miscellaneous Authorities and Limitations
               Sec. 1041. Authority to contribute to innovation fund.
               Sec. 1042. Extension of authorization of expenditure of funds for Department of Defense intelligence and counterintelligence activities.
               Sec. 1043. Extension of authority for reimbursement of expenses for certain Navy mess operations.
               Sec. 1044. Prohibition on realignment or reduction of Special Operations Forces end strength authorizations.
               Sec. 1045. Prohibition on use of funds for work performed by EcoHealth Alliance, Inc., in China on research supported by the government of China.
               Sec. 1046. Prohibition on transporting currency to the Taliban and the Islamic Emirate of Afghanistan.
               Sec. 1047. Prohibition on Department of Defense usage of Tutor.com.
               Sec. 1048. Prohibition on operation of connected vehicles designed, developed, manufactured, or supplied by persons owned by, controlled by, or subject to the jurisdiction of a foreign entity of concern on Department of Defense property.
               Sec. 1049. Prohibition on Department of Defense transport of Palestinian refugees to the United States.
               Sec. 1049A. Prohibition on promotion of critical race theory and associated race-based theories.
               Sec. 1049B. Limitation on authority of Armed Forces to detain citizens of the United States.
               Sec. 1049C. Prohibition on use of funds to cut services provided at certain combat training readiness centers.
               Sec. 1049D. Elimination of discretion of military chain of command and senior civilian leadership with respect to display of flags.
               Sec. 1049E. Prohibition on use of funds for Badr Organization.
               Sec. 1049F. Suspension or revocation of certain permissions to access classified information.
               Subtitle F—Studies and Reports
               Sec. 1051. Quadrennial biodefense posture review.
               Sec. 1052. Chief of Navy Reserve annual report.
               Sec. 1053. Extension of annual report on civilian casualties in connection with United States military operations.
               Sec. 1054. Mobility capability requirements study.
               Sec. 1055. Plan for fielding air base air defense sites at Air Force installations.
               Sec. 1056. Review of execute orders.
               Sec. 1057. Report on sensor and interceptor capabilities necessary to defend critical infrastructure assets.
               Sec. 1058. Report on price elasticity of labor supply at shipyards and supplier firms.
               Sec. 1059. Study and report on implementation of naval blockades of shipments of fossil fuels to China in event of armed conflict.
               Sec. 1060. Comptroller General review of food waste at Department of Defense and Coast Guard facilities.
               Sec. 1061. Study on feasibility of establishment of Centers of Excellence for Servicewomen’s Health.
               Sec. 1062. Reports on approval and deployment of lethal autonomous weapon systems.
               Sec. 1063. Report on fielding certain wearable devices for impact protection against traumatic brain injury.
               Sec. 1064. Utilization of office space by the Department of Defense.
               Sec. 1065. Feasibility study on establishment and maintenance of Department of the Air Force training center at Eaker Air Force Base, Blytheville, Arkansas.
               Sec. 1066. Report on attempts by illegal aliens to access military installations.
               Sec. 1067. Study on use of space-available travel for donated human organs.
               Sec. 1068. Study and report on Department of the Navy policies with respect to net metering.
               Sec. 1069. Briefing on Department of Defense program to protect United States students against foreign agents.
               Sec. 1069A. Tri-service arctic maritime strategy.
               Sec. 1069B. Report on training and safety program for operation of assault amphibious vehicles.
               Sec. 1069C. Updates to national biodefense strategy.
               Sec. 1069D. Report on modifications of expeditionary transfer dock ships.
               Sec. 1069E. Report on military and weapons lost during withdrawal from Afghanistan.
               Sec. 1069F. Assessment of the health care system supporting military installations in the R–2508 airspace.
               Sec. 1069G. GAO review and report on biological weapons experiments on and in relation to ticks, tick-borne disease.
               Sec. 1069H. Assessment of influence of China in Pacific Island nations.
               Sec. 1069I. Comptroller General study on use of unmanned vehicles to reduce Department of Defense expenses.
               Sec. 1069J. Secretary of Defense report on threat of rifle-toting robot dogs used by China to the national security of the United States.
               Sec. 1069K. Study on testing of foreign adversary highly autonomous vehicles.
               Sec. 1069L. Report on effectiveness of the Optimizing the Human Weapon System Program.
               Sec. 1069M. Comptroller general study on dredging capacity and port readiness.
               Sec. 1069N. Report on red flags missed in Janet Yamanaka Mello fraud scheme.
               Sec. 1069O. Report on Navy use of immersive learning capabilities.
               Sec. 1069P. Department of Defense report on potential cost savings from use of artificial intelligence.
               Subtitle G—Other Matters
               Sec. 1071. Expedited access to certain military installations of the Department of Defense for Members of Congress and certain Congressional employees.
               Sec. 1072. Air Force Technical Training Center of Excellence.
               Sec. 1073. Installation energy plans and assessment for reduction of reliance on Russian energy.
               Sec. 1074. Extension of Commission on the Future of the Navy.
               Sec. 1075. Modification of National Security Commission on Emerging Biotechnology.
               Sec. 1076. Modification of defense sensitive support notification requirement.
               Sec. 1077. Post-employment restrictions for participants in certain research funded by the Department of Defense.
               Sec. 1078. Establishment of national security capital forum.
               Sec. 1079. Plan for additional skill identifiers for Army Mountain Warfare School.
               Sec. 1080. Tabletop exercise on extreme weather events in the Indo-Pacific region.
               Sec. 1081. Pilot program on Army readiness in contested logistics environments.
               Sec. 1082. Pilot program on forward advanced manufacturing.
               Sec. 1083. Frank A. LoBiondo National Aerospace Safety and Security Campus.
               Sec. 1084. Assessment regarding antifouling coatings.
               Sec. 1085. Authorization to use nonelectric vehicles at Yuma Proving Ground.
               Sec. 1086. Sense of Congress relating to expenditures for certain military housing.
               Sec. 1087. University Centers for Arctic National Security Studies.
               Sec. 1088. Psychological performance training in performance mindset.
               Sec. 1089. Sense of Congress regarding cooperation with the Philippines on maritime security.
               Sec. 1090. Establishment of Multilateral Artificial Intelligence Working Group.
               Sec. 1091. Declassification review of documents relating to involvement of United States in 1973 coup in Chile.
               TITLE XI—CIVILIAN PERSONNEL MATTERS
               Sec. 1101.  Extension of authority for noncompetitive appointments of military spouses by Federal agencies.
               Sec. 1102.  Extension of living quarters allowance to civilian DOD employees stationed in Guam.
               Sec. 1103.  One-year extension of authority to waive annual limitation on premium pay and aggregate limitation on pay for federal civilian employees working overseas.
               Sec. 1104.  One-year extension of temporary authority to grant allowances, benefits, and gratuities to civilian personnel on official duty in a combat zone.
               Sec. 1105.  Prohibition on limiting duration of overseas work-period for DOD competitive service positions.
               Sec. 1106.  Waiver of limitation on appointment of recently retired members of armed forces to DOD competitive service positions.
               Sec. 1107.  Child development program staffing and compensation model.
               Sec. 1108.  Mandatory public disclosures by newly nominated civilians for senior positions in the Department of Defense.
               Sec. 1109.  Employment and compensation of civilian faculty members at Inter-American Defense College.
               Sec. 1110.  Supplemental guidance for MCO competitive service positions.
               Sec. 1111.  Treatment of veterans who did not register for the selective service.
               Sec. 1112.  Increase in military leave accrual and accumulation for Federal employees.
               Sec. 1113.  Flexibilities for Federal employees who are armed forces spouses.
               Sec. 1114. GAO report on home-based businesses at remote military installations.
               Sec. 1115. Expand Department of Defense civilian employment.
               Sec. 1116. Limitation on establishment of new diversity, equity, and inclusion positions; hiring freeze.
               Sec. 1117. OMB employment form requirement for DOD contractors.
               Sec. 1118. Sufficient firefighter personnel covered installations.
               TITLE XII—MATTERS RELATING TO FOREIGN NATIONS
               Subtitle A—Assistance and training
               Sec. 1201. Modification of Department of Defense State Partnership program.
               Sec. 1202. Assessment, monitoring, and evaluation of programs and activities.
               Sec. 1203. Modification of Department of Defense support to stabilization activities.
               Sec. 1204. Extension and modification of Defense Operational Resilience International Cooperation Pilot Program.
               Sec. 1205. Report on compliance by the Department of Defense with the limitation on military-to-military exchange or contact with representatives of the Chinese People’s Liberation Army.
               Sec. 1206. General Thaddeus Kosciuszko memorial exchange program for Polish-American defense cooperation.
               Sec. 1207. Report on cooperation between the National Guard and the Republic of India.
               Subtitle B—Matters relating to the Near and Middle East
               Sec. 1211. Extension and modification of authority to provide assistance to counter the Islamic State of Iraq and Syria.
               Sec. 1212. Extension of authority to provide assistance to vetted Syrian groups and individuals.
               Sec. 1213. Extension and modification of annual report on military power of Iran.
               Sec. 1214. Help Israel Recover the Hostages.
               Sec. 1215. Statement of Congress relating to Israel and the hostages held by Hamas.
               Sec. 1216. Key partners for Middle East Regional Integration Military Subject Matter Expert Exchange Program.
               Sec. 1217. Sense of Congress regarding Israel.
               Sec. 1218. Study and report on international security measures on the border between Gaza and Egypt.
               Sec. 1219. Prohibition on providing funding to Iranian entities.
               Sec. 1220. Report on agreements made by the United States with the Taliban.
               Sec. 1220A. Modification of report on the military capabilities of Iran and related activities.
               Sec. 1220B. Briefing on Iranian support for non-state actors in North Africa.
               Subtitle C—Matters relating to Syria
               Sec. 1221. Sense of Congress.
               Sec. 1222. Strategy to protect the Al-Tanf Garrison.
               Sec. 1223. Report and strategy on the Assad regime’s relationship with ISIS.
               Sec. 1224. Strategy to counter the Assad regime’s support and cooperation with Iran-backed militias in Syria.
               Sec. 1225. Report and strategy on Russia’s support for foreign terrorist organizations in Syria.
               Sec. 1226. Prohibition of recognition of the Assad regime.
               Sec. 1227. Appropriate congressional committees defined.
               Subtitle D—Other matters
               Sec. 1231. Prohibition on New START Treaty information sharing.
               Sec. 1232. Ensuring Israel’s defense.
               Sec. 1233. Requirement to conduct subterranean warfare military exercises.
               Sec. 1234. United States-Israel PTSD Collaborative Research.
               Sec. 1235. United States and Israel Trauma and Amputee Rehabilitation Education and Training Program with the Medical Corps of the Israel Defense Forces.
               Sec. 1236. Sense of Congress on the importance of the Iron Dome system.
               Sec. 1237. Authority to build capacity of foreign security forces.
               Sec. 1238. Report on training of Ukrainian armed forces.
               Sec. 1239. Sense of Congress on defense by NATO member states.
               Sec. 1240. Report on war in Ukraine.
               Sec. 1241. Inclusion of special operations forces in planning and strategy relating to the Arctic region.
               Sec. 1242. Report on allied contributions to the common defense.
               Sec. 1243. Inclusion of information on relationship between China and Iran in certain Department of Defense annual report.
               Sec. 1244. Sense of Congress on international defense exhibitions.
               Sec. 1245. Report and strategy for United States involvement in Ukraine.
               Sec. 1246. Report on multilateral exercises in the eastern Mediterranean.
               Sec. 1247. Report on certain assistance to Ukraine.
               Sec. 1248. Military cooperation with Morocco.
               Sec. 1249. Strategic partnership on defense industrial priorities between the United States and Israel.
               Sec. 1250. Report on military activities of the Russian Federation and the People’s Republic of China in the Arctic region.
               Sec. 1251. Report on cooperative efforts to stop unmanned aerial systems.
               TITLE XIII—OTHER MATTERS RELATING TO FOREIGN NATIONS
               Subtitle A—Matters related to the Indo-Pacific region
               Sec. 1301. Extension and modification of Pacific Deterrence Initiative.
               Sec. 1302. Modification of public reporting of Chinese Military Companies operating in the United States.
               Sec. 1303. Modifications to public reporting of Chinese military companies operating in the United States.
               Sec. 1304. Establishment of Indo-Pacific medical readiness program.
               Sec. 1305. Prohibition on use of funds to promote a one country, two systems solution for Taiwan.
               Sec. 1306. Modification of Prohibition on Participation of the People’s Republic of China in Rim of the Pacific (RIMPAC) Naval Exercises.
               Sec. 1307.  Language requirements for public reporting of Chinese military companies operating in the United States.
               Sec. 1308. Modification of prohibition on participation of People’s Republic of China in Rim of the Pacific exercises.
               Subtitle B—Matters relating to South and East Asia
               Sec. 1311. Sense of Congress on South Korea.
               Sec. 1312. Sense of Congress on Taiwan defense relations.
               Sec. 1313. Consideration of Taiwan for enhanced defense industrial base cooperation.
               Sec. 1314. Modification to annual report on military and security developments involving the People's Republic of China.
               Sec. 1315. Designation of official responsible for coordination of department of defense efforts to monitor People’s Liberation Army overseas basing efforts.
               Sec. 1316. Report on prohibition with respect to certain Federal grants to ensure research security.
               Sec. 1317. Prohibition on use of funds to support entertainment entities which produce or co-produce for Chinese propaganda.
               Sec. 1318. Invitation to Taiwan to the rim of the Pacific exercise.
               Sec. 1319. Report on feasibility of developing and deploying asymmetric naval assets in defense of Taiwan.
               Sec. 1320. Report on impact of the malign influence of China and Russia.
               Sec. 1321. Report on support for Taiwan’s military preparedness.
               TITLE XIV—OTHER AUTHORIZATIONS
               Subtitle A—Military Programs
               Sec. 1401. Working capital funds.
               Sec. 1402. Chemical agents and munitions destruction, defense.
               Sec. 1403. Drug interdiction and counter-drug activities, defense-wide.
               Sec. 1404. Defense Inspector General.
               Sec. 1405. Defense Health Program.
               Subtitle B—National Defense Stockpile
               Sec. 1411. Use of domestic sources by National Defense Stockpile.
               Sec. 1412. Restoring the National Defense Stockpile.
               Sec. 1413. Consultations with respect to environmental review of certain projects relating to availability of strategic and critical materials for acquisition for National Defense Stockpile.
               Subtitle C—Other Matters
               Sec. 1421. Extension of authorities for funding and management of Joint Department of Defense-Department of Veterans Affairs Medical Facility Demonstration Fund for Captain James A. Lovell Health Care Center, Illinois.
               Sec. 1422. Eligibility of Space Force officers for membership on Armed Forces Retirement Home Advisory Council.
               Sec. 1423. Authorization of appropriations for Armed Forces Retirement Home.
               TITLE XV—CYBERSPACE-RELATED MATTERS
               Subtitle A—Cyber Operations
               Sec. 1501. Authority to accept voluntary and uncompensated services from cybersecurity experts.
               Sec. 1502. Establishment of the Department of Defense Hackathon program.
               Sec. 1503. Department of Defense Information Network subordinate unified command.
               Sec. 1504. Accounting of cloud computing capabilities of the Department of Defense.
               Subtitle B—Cybersecurity
               Sec. 1511. Protective measures for mobile devices within the Department of Defense.
               Sec. 1512. Strategy to improve the use of air and missile defense partner sharing network capabilities with allies and partners in the middle east.
               Subtitle C—Information Technology and Data Management
               Sec. 1521. Usability of antiquated data formats for modern operations.
               Sec. 1522. Modernization of the Department of Defense’s Authorization to Operate processes.
               Sec. 1523. Assessment of innovative data analysis and information technology solutions.
               Subtitle D—Reports and Other Matters
               Sec. 1531. Modification to certification requirement regarding contracting for military recruiting.
               Sec. 1532. Report on total force generation for the Cyberspace Operations Forces.
               Sec. 1533. Access to national suicide prevention and mental health crisis hotline system.
               Sec. 1534. Limitation on availability of travel funds.
               Sec. 1535. Prohibition on disestablishment or merger of officer career paths within the Cyber Branch of the United States Army.
               Sec. 1536. Independent evaluation regarding potential establishment of United States Cyber Force.
               Sec. 1537. Oversight and reporting on the Mission Partner Environment and associated activities within the Department of Defense.
               Sec. 1538. Department of Defense use of large language models.
               Sec. 1539. Report on State National Guard cyber units.
               Sec. 1540. Report on user activity monitoring programs of the Department of Defense.
               TITLE XVI—SPACE ACTIVITIES, STRATEGIC PROGRAMS, AND INTELLIGENCE MATTERS
               Subtitle A—Space Activities
               Sec. 1601.  Authority to build capacity for space domain awareness and space operations.
               Sec. 1602. Establishment of the Commercial Augmentation Space Reserve.
               Sec. 1603. Modifications to National Security Space Launch program.
               Sec. 1604. Modifications to space contractor responsibility watch list.
               Sec. 1605. Annual briefing on commercial space strategy of the Space Force.
               Sec. 1606. Pilot program to demonstrate hybrid space architecture.
               Sec. 1607. Middle East integrated space and satellite security assessment.
               Sec. 1608. Plan for improvement of Space Force satellite control network.
               Sec. 1609. Briefing on space-related waveform and datalink capabilities.
               Sec. 1609A. Report on capabilities in cislunar space.
               Sec. 1609B. Sense of Congress on the development of very low earth orbit spacecraft.
               Sec. 1609C. Report on Space Force use of nuclear thermal propulsion and nuclear electric propulsion space vehicles.
               Subtitle B—Defense Intelligence and Intelligence-Related Activities
               Sec. 1611. Extension and modification of authority to engage in certain commercial activities as security for intelligence collection activities.
               Sec. 1612. Expansion of authority to execute warrants and make arrests to special agents of Army Counterintelligence Command.
               Sec. 1613. Sensitive compartmented information facility accreditation.
               Subtitle C—Nuclear Forces
               Sec. 1621. Modification of requirements and authorities relating to the nuclear-armed, sea-launched cruise missile.
               Sec. 1622. Long-term plan for strategic nuclear forces during delivery vehicle transition.
               Sec. 1623. Limitations on use of funds to dismantle B83–1 nuclear gravity bomb.
               Sec. 1624. Prohibition on reduction of intercontinental ballistic missiles of the United States.
               Sec. 1625. Conditional requirements for Sentinel missile program.
               Sec. 1626. Reports and briefings on recommendations of the Congressional Commission on the Strategic Posture of the United States.
               Sec. 1627. Statement of policy with respect to nuclear weapons.
               Sec. 1628. Expansion of nuclear long range standoff capability.
               Subtitle D—Missile Defense Programs
               Sec. 1631. Expansion of certain prohibitions relating to missile defense information and systems to apply to People’s Republic of China.
               Sec. 1632. Limitation on availability of funds with respect to certain missile defense system governance documents, policies, and procedures.
               Sec. 1633. Additional missile defense site for protection of United States homeland.
               Subtitle E—Other Matters
               Sec. 1641. Modification to annual assessment of budget with respect to electromagnetic spectrum operations capabilities.
               Sec. 1642. Cooperative threat reduction funds.
               Sec. 1643. Report on roles and responsibilities relating to defense against hypersonic threats.
               TITLE XVII—OTHER DEFENSE MATTERS
               Subtitle A—Miscellaneous Authorities and Limitations
               Sec. 1701. Modification of humanitarian assistance authority.
               Sec. 1702. Exclusion of oceanographic research vessels from certain sourcing requirements.
               Sec. 1703. Exemption under Marine Mammal Protection Act of 1972 for certain activities that may result in incidental take of Rice’s whale.
               Sec. 1704. Combatting illicit tobacco products.
               Sec. 1705. Prohibition on use of funds from constructing or maintaining pier off the coast of Gaza.
               Sec. 1706. Prohibition of funds to CCP entities.
               Sec. 1707. Limitation on funds.
               Sec. 1708. Prohibition on assistance for building in, or rebuilding Gaza.
               Sec. 1709. Limitation on use of funds for production of films and prohibition on use of such funds for films subject to conditions on content or altered for screening in the People's Republic of China or at the request of the Chinese Communist Party.
               Sec. 1710. Prohibition on use of funds.
               Sec. 1711. Limitation on availability of funds for Ukraine.
               Sec. 1712. Department of Defense requirement to use Taiwan.
               Sec. 1713. Project Spectrum.
               Subtitle B—Studies and Reports
               Sec. 1721. Termination of reporting requirement for cross domain incidents and exemptions to policies for information technology.
               Sec. 1722. Analysis of certain unmanned aircraft systems entities.
               Sec. 1723. Annual report on Postsecondary Education Complaint System.
               Sec. 1724. Feasibility study of domestic refining of deep sea critical mineral intermediates.
               Sec. 1725. Certification and reports on South Africa.
               Sec. 1726. Extension of report on islamic revolutionary guard corps-affiliated operatives abroad.
               Sec. 1727. Report on receipt of funding from Confucius Institutes.
               Sec. 1728. Report on Iranian oil sales proceeds.
               Sec. 1729. Working group on blockchain, smart contracts, and distributed ledger technologies.
               Sec. 1730. Inspector General of the Department of Defense annual report on oversight of fraud, waste, and abuse.
               Sec. 1731. GAO report on settlements in medical malpractice claims by members of the uniformed services.
               Sec. 1732. Report on security cooperation with the Government of the Turks and Caicos Islands.
               Sec. 1733. Assessment of the accuracy of Gaza Ministry of Health casualty reporting.
               Sec. 1734. Annual report on Department of Defense assistance to U.S. Customs and Border Protection and Department of Homeland Security on northern border security.
               Sec. 1735. Comptroller General study and report on antagonistic use of satellites.
               Sec. 1736. Reporting on Iranian Centrifuge Installation.
               Sec. 1737. Report on system dependencies, uptime, and key factors of electronic health record system.
               Sec. 1738. Report on use of nuclear power for military and soft power purposes.
               Sec. 1739. Under Secretary of Defense for Policy study and report on expansion of National Guard State Partnership Program.
               Subtitle C—Other Matters
               Sec. 1741. Technical and conforming amendments.
               Sec. 1742. Expansion of eligibility for Servicemembers' Group Life Insurance.
               Sec. 1743. Display of United States flag for patriotic and military observances.
               Sec. 1744. Reduction of light pollution at Department of Defense facilities.
               Sec. 1745. Strategy to improve activities related to counternarcotics and counter-transnational organized crime.
               Sec. 1746. Risk framework for foreign mobile applications of concern.
               Sec. 1747. Federal contractor vulnerability disclosure policy.
               Sec. 1748. Records relating to Tower 22 attack.
               Sec. 1749. Prohibition on construction of Gaza port.
               Sec. 1750. Copyright protection for certain literary works of military members of the faculty of certain institutions.
               Sec. 1751. Revocation of Security Clearances for Certain Persons.
               Sec. 1752. United States-Israel cooperation on space matters.
               Sec. 1753. State and local law enforcement access to lifesaving Federal equipment.
               Sec. 1754. Limitation on funding activities performed by persons in drag.
               Sec. 1755. Prohibition on diverting funding from the Indo-Pacific region.
               Sec. 1756. Development of national strategy.
               Sec. 1757. Statement of policy relating to reporting requirements of China’s Maritime Safety Administration.
               Sec. 1758. Report on military spouse security clearance.
               Sec. 1759. Sense of Congress regarding feasibility study for Blue Grass Chemical Agent-Destruction Pilot Plant.
               Sec. 1760. Rewards for information regarding leaders of Hamas.
               Sec. 1761. Prohibition on funding for the Countering Extremist Activity Working Group.
               Sec. 1762. Report on the use of major non-NATO ally status for Kenya.
               Sec. 1763. Limitation on displaying in certain public areas cut flowers or greens not produced in the United States.
               Sec. 1764. United States-Israel emerging technology capabilities cooperation.
               Sec. 1765. Briefing on institutional capacity building of countries within United States Africa Command area of responsibility.
               Sec. 1766. GAO study on Department of Defense Education Activity Disability Emphasis Program.
               Sec. 1767. Common coalition key within the Baltic states.
               TITLE XVIII—QUALITY OF LIFE
               Subtitle A—Pay and Compensation
               Sec. 1801. Reform of rates of monthly basic pay.
               Sec. 1802. Basic allowance for housing: authorization of appropriations.
               Sec. 1803. Evaluation of the rates of the basic allowance for subsistence.
               Sec. 1804. Basic needs allowance for members on active service in the Armed Forces: expansion of eligibility; increase of amount.
               Sec. 1805. Expansion of authority of a commanding officer to authorize a basic allowance for housing for a member performing initial field or sea duty.
               Sec. 1806. Expansion of travel and transportation allowance to move or store a privately owned vehicle.
               Sec. 1807. Report regarding the calculation of cost-of-living allowances.
               Subtitle B—Child Care
               Sec. 1811. Competitive pay for Department of Defense child care personnel.
               Sec. 1812. Parent fees at military child development centers for child care employees.
               Sec. 1813. Child abuse prevention and safety at military child development centers.
               Sec. 1814. Additional information in outreach campaign relating to waiting lists for military child development centers.
               Sec. 1815. Priority in expansion of pilot program to provide financial assistance to members of the Armed Forces for in-home child care.
               Sec. 1816. Child care services and youth program services for dependents.
               Sec. 1817. Briefings on military child development centers.
               Sec. 1818. Briefing on access of members of National Guard to child care services at military child development centers.
               Subtitle C—Military Housing
               Sec. 1821. Budget justification for certain Facilities Sustainment, Restoration, and Modernization projects.
               Sec. 1822. Strategy for use of existing leasing authorities to address shortages of covered military unaccompanied housing required.
               Sec. 1823. Independent assessment of estimated costs of certain strategies to address shortages of covered military unaccompanied housing.
               Sec. 1824. Digital maintenance request system for covered military unaccompanied housing.
               Sec. 1825. Digital facilities management systems for military departments.
               Sec. 1826. Temporary biennial report on quality and condition of covered military unaccompanied housing located outside the United States.
               Sec. 1827. Housing accommodations for military families on housing waitlists.
               Subtitle D—Access to Health Care
               Sec. 1831. Exclusion of mental health care providers from authorized strengths of certain officers on active duty.
               Sec. 1832. TRICARE program: waiver of referral requirement under TRICARE Prime for certain care in a military medical treatment facility.
               Sec. 1833. Extension of enhanced appointment and compensation authority for certain health care providers.
               Sec. 1834. Referral of a member of the Armed Forces to a TRICARE provider for urgent behavioral health services.
               Sec. 1835. Waiver with respect to experienced nurses at military medical treatment facilities.
               Sec. 1836. Pilot program for hiring health care professionals.
               Sec. 1837. Retention of health care providers: surveys; briefing; reports.
               Subtitle E—Support for Military Spouses
               Sec. 1841. Interstate compacts for portability of occupational licenses of military spouses: permanent authority.
               Sec. 1842. Permanent Military Spouse Career Accelerator program.
               Sec. 1843. Child care services and youth program services for dependents: period of services for a member with a spouse seeking employment.
               Subtitle F—Other Matters, Reports, and Briefings
               Sec. 1851. Increased access to food on military installations.
               Sec. 1852. Department of Defense plan to construct memorial at Arlington National Cemetery in commemoration of members of the Armed Forces killed in certain attack at Hamid Karzai International Airport, Kabul, Afghanistan.
               Sec. 1853. Report on reducing misconceptions about mental health and security clearance eligibility.
               Sec. 1854. Briefing on implementation of recommendations of Quality of Life Panel.
               Division B—Military Construction Authorizations
               Sec. 2001. Short title.
               Sec. 2002. Expiration of authorizations and amounts required to be specified by law.
               Sec. 2003. Effective date.
               TITLE XXI—ARMY MILITARY CONSTRUCTION
               Sec. 2101. Authorized Army construction and land acquisition projects.
               Sec. 2102. Family housing.
               Sec. 2103. Authorization of appropriations, Army.
               Sec. 2104. Extension of authority to carry out fiscal year 2018 project at Kunsan Air Base, Korea.
               Sec. 2105. Extension of authority to carry out fiscal year 2019 project at Mihail Kogalniceanu forward operating site, Romania.
               Sec. 2106. Extension of authority to carry out certain fiscal year 2020 projects.
               Sec. 2107. Extension of authority to carry out certain fiscal year 2021 projects.
               Sec. 2108. Extension of authority to carry out certain fiscal year 2022 projects.
               TITLE XXII—NAVY MILITARY CONSTRUCTION
               Sec. 2201. Authorized Navy construction and land acquisition projects.
               Sec. 2202. Family housing.
               Sec. 2203. Authorization of Appropriations, Navy.
               Sec. 2204. Extension of authority to carry out certain fiscal year 2019 projects.
               Sec. 2205. Extension of authority to carry out fiscal year 2020 project at Marine Corps Air Station Yuma, Arizona.
               Sec. 2206. Extension of authority to carry out certain fiscal year 2021 projects.
               Sec. 2207. Extension of authority to carry out certain fiscal year 2022 projects.
               TITLE XXIII—AIR FORCE MILITARY CONSTRUCTION
               Sec. 2301. Authorized air force construction and land acquisition projects.
               Sec. 2302. Family housing.
               Sec. 2303. Authorization of Appropriations, Air Force.
               Sec. 2304. Extension of authority to carry out fiscal year 2017 project at Spangdahlem Air Base, Germany.
               Sec. 2305. Extension of authority to carry out certain fiscal year 2018 projects.
               Sec. 2306. Extension of authority to carry out certain fiscal year 2019 projects.
               Sec. 2307. Extension of authority to carry out certain fiscal year 2020 projects.
               Sec. 2308. Extension of authority to carry out fiscal year 2021 project at Joint Base Langley-Eustis, Virginia.
               Sec. 2309. Extension of authority to carry out certain fiscal year 2022 projects.
               TITLE XXIV—DEFENSE AGENCIES MILITARY CONSTRUCTION
               Sec. 2401. Authorized Defense Agencies construction and land acquisition projects.
               Sec. 2402. Authorized Energy Resilience and Conservation Investment program projects.
               Sec. 2403. Authorization of Appropriations, Defense Agencies.
               Sec. 2404. Extension of authority to carry out fiscal year 2018 project at Iwakuni, Japan.
               Sec. 2405. Extension of authority to carry out fiscal year 2019 project at Iwakuni, Japan.
               Sec. 2406. Extension of authority to carry out fiscal year 2020 project at Fort Indiantown Gap, Pennsylvania.
               Sec. 2407. Extension of authority to carry out certain fiscal year 2021 projects.
               Sec. 2408. Modification of authority to carry out fiscal year 2022 project at Joint Base Anacostia-Bolling, District of Columbia.
               Sec. 2409. Extension of authority to carry out certain fiscal year 2022 projects.
               TITLE XXV—INTERNATIONAL PROGRAMS
               Subtitle A—North Atlantic Treaty Organization Security Investment Program
               Sec. 2501. Authorized NATO construction and land acquisition projects.
               Sec. 2502. Authorization of appropriations, NATO.
               Subtitle B—Host Country In-Kind Contributions
               Sec. 2511. Republic of Korea funded construction projects.
               Sec. 2512. Republic of Poland funded construction projects.
               TITLE XXVI—GUARD AND RESERVE FORCES FACILITIES
               Sec. 2601. Authorized Army National Guard construction and land acquisition projects.
               Sec. 2602. Authorized Army Reserve construction and land acquisition projects.
               Sec. 2603. Authorized Navy Reserve and Marine Corps Reserve construction and land acquisition projects.
               Sec. 2604. Authorized Air National Guard construction and land acquisition projects.
               Sec. 2605. Authorized Air Force Reserve construction and land acquisition projects.
               Sec. 2606. Authorization of appropriations, National Guard and Reserve.
               Sec. 2607. Extension of authority to carry out certain fiscal year 2020 projects.
               Sec. 2608. Extension of authority to carry out certain fiscal year 2021 projects.
               Sec. 2609. Modification of authority to carry out fiscal year 2022 project for National Guard Readiness Center.
               Sec. 2610. Extension of authority to carry out certain fiscal year 2022 projects.
               TITLE XXVII—BASE REALIGNMENT AND CLOSURE ACTIVITIES
               Sec. 2701. Authorization of appropriations for base realignment and closure activities funded through Department of Defense base closure account.
               TITLE XXVIII—MILITARY CONSTRUCTION GENERAL PROVISIONS
               Subtitle A—Military Construction Programs
               Sec. 2801. Development and operation of the Naval Innovation Center at the Naval Postgraduate School.
               Sec. 2802. Assistance for public infrastructure projects and services.
               Sec. 2803. Military base reuse studies and community planning assistance.
               Sec. 2804. Expansion of eligible grant recipients under the Defense Community Infrastructure Program.
               Sec. 2805. Amendments to defense laboratory modernization program.
               Sec. 2806. Annual five-year plans on improvement of Department of Defense innovation infrastructure.
               Sec. 2807. Expansion of stormwater management projects for installation and defense access road resilience; modification of project priorities.
               Sec. 2808. Expansion of authorized threshold for certain minor military construction projects within area of responsibility of United States Indo-Pacific Command.
               Sec. 2809. Notification to Members of Congress for awards of contracts for military construction projects.
               Sec. 2810. Assessment of workforce needs in the Freely Associated States to support future military construction.
               Subtitle B—Military Housing Reforms
               Sec. 2821. Extension of applicability for waivers of covered privacy and configuration standards for covered military unaccompanied housing.
               Sec. 2822. Additional requirements for database of complaints made regarding housing units of Department of Defense.
               Sec. 2823. Modification to definition of privatized military housing.
               Sec. 2824. Analysis of housing availability for critical civilian and contractor personnel near rural military installations.
               Sec. 2825. Limitation on availability of funds for certain Department of Defense travel until establishment of certain complaint database.
               Subtitle C—Real Property and Facilities Administration
               Sec. 2831. Process for strategic basing actions for the Department of the Air Force.
               Sec. 2832. Inclusion of tribal governments in intergovernmental support agreements for installation-support services.
               Sec. 2833. Improvements relating to access to military installations in United States.
               Sec. 2834. Deferral of execution of certain requirements for covered housing facilities and covered landscape features; report.
               Sec. 2835. Pilot programs of Department of Army and Department of Navy to conduct repair and maintenance projects on covered historic facilities.
               Sec. 2836. Strategy and assessment with respect to non-operational, underutilized, and other Department of Defense facilities; briefing required.
               Sec. 2837. Temporary authority for use of imitative substitute building materials for maintenance, repair, rehabilitation, or renovation of covered historic facilities.
               Sec. 2838. Expenditures on leased facilities and real property usage in the National Capital Region.
               Sec. 2839. Screening and registry of individuals with health conditions resulting from unsafe housing units.
               Sec. 2839A. Prohibition on use by Air Force of corporate structure in conducting certain basing decisions.
               Sec. 2839B. Technical correction to map reference in the Military Land Withdrawals Act of 2013.
               Sec. 2839C. Research, standards, and other requirements relating to indoor residential mold.
               Sec. 2839D. Study on construction of child development centers.
               Subtitle D—Land Conveyances
               Sec. 2841. Land conveyance, Boyle Memorial Army Reserve Center, Paris, Texas.
               Sec. 2842. Land conveyance, Riverdale Park, Maryland.
               Sec. 2843. Transfer authority, Mare Island Naval Shipyard, Vallejo, California.
               Sec. 2844. Release of interests retained in Camp Joseph T. Robinson, Arkansas, for use of such land as a training area for the Arkansas Department of Public Safety.
               Sec. 2845. Land conveyance, Fort Huachuca, Sierra Vista, Arizona.
               Sec. 2846. Removal of use conditions and conditions on reversion for the former Army and Navy General Hospital, Hot Springs National Park, Hot Springs, Arkansas.
               Sec. 2847. Land conveyance and authorization for interim lease, Defense Fuel Support Point San Pedro, Los Angeles, California.
               Subtitle E—Other Matters
               Sec. 2851. Extension of prohibition on joint use of Homestead Air Reserve Base with civil aviation.
               Sec. 2852. Schedule of repairs at Naval Air Station, Pensacola, Florida.
               Sec. 2853. Modification of requirements.
               Sec. 2854. Department of Defense policy relating to contractors for military construction projects.
               Sec. 2855. Survey and procedures for munitions of explosive concern on military installations in Guam.
               Sec. 2856. Market survey of domestic suppliers of sand and gravel for marine concrete.
               Sec. 2857. Survey of certain counties for placement of facilities.
               Sec. 2858. Study on certain grants awarded to support investments in certain child care facilities under the defense community infrastructure program.
               Sec. 2859. Requirement to maintain access to category 3 subterranean training facility.
               Sec. 2860. Quarterly report on infiltrations of certain Department of Defense property by foreign actors.
               Sec. 2861. Designation of Creech Air Force Base, Nevada, as remote or isolated installation.
               Sec. 2862. Feasibility study by the Secretary of Defense on replicating the Army Future Soldier Prep Course through the other service branches.
               Sec. 2863. Authorization of assistance to expedite certain military construction projects located in Guam.
               Sec. 2864. Briefing on instances of attempted breaches of Department of Defense military installations required.
               Sec. 2865. Report on land use practices around military installations in the Freely Associated States.
               Division C—DEPARTMENT OF ENERGY NATIONAL SECURITY AUTHORIZATIONS AND OTHER AUTHORIZATIONS
               TITLE XXXI—DEPARTMENT OF ENERGY NATIONAL SECURITY PROGRAMS
               Subtitle A—National Security Programs and Authorizations
               Sec. 3101. National Nuclear Security Administration.
               Sec. 3102. Defense environmental cleanup.
               Sec. 3103. Other defense activities.
               Sec. 3104. Nuclear energy.
               Subtitle B—Program Authorizations, Restrictions, and Limitations
               Sec. 3111. Prohibition on admittance to national security laboratories and nuclear weapons production facilities.
               Sec. 3112. Prohibition on availability of funds to reconvert or retire W76–2 warheads.
               Sec. 3113. Designation of National Nuclear Security Administration as technical nuclear forensics lead.
               Subtitle C—Other Matters
               Sec. 3121. Modification to and termination of certain reporting requirements under Atomic Energy Defense Act.
               Sec. 3122. List of potential advanced nuclear technology deployment opportunities.
               Sec. 3123. Sense of Congress regarding development of storage facilities for permanent storage of nuclear material within the Great Lakes Basin.
               Sec. 3124. Sense of Congress on commitment to nuclear power.
               Sec. 3125. Sense of Congress supporting Project Pele.
               TITLE XXXII—DEFENSE NUCLEAR FACILITIES SAFETY BOARD
               Sec. 3201. Authorization.
               TITLE XXXIV—NAVAL PETROLEUM RESERVES
               Sec. 3401. Authorization of appropriations.
               TITLE XXXV—MARITIME ADMINISTRATION
               Subtitle A—Maritime Administration
               Sec. 3501. Authorization of appropriations for Maritime Administration.
               Sec. 3502. Reauthorization of Maritime Security Program.
               Subtitle B—Maritime Infrastructure
               Sec. 3511. Port infrastructure development program.
               Sec. 3512. Sealift capability.
               Subtitle C—Reports
               Sec. 3521. Independent study and report on Shanghai Shipping Exchange.
               Sec. 3522. Study on the movement of critical cargo through marine terminals and ports.
               Subtitle D—Other Matters
               Sec. 3531. Extension of certain provisions relating to Tanker Security Fleet program.
               Sec. 3532. Requirements for purchasing federally auctioned vessels.
               Sec. 3533. Recapitalization of National Defense Reserve Fleet.
               Sec. 3534. Policies regarding training of certain veterans in the State maritime academies.
               Sec. 3535. Technical clarifications.
               Sec. 3536. Maritime Workforce Promotion and Recruitment Act.
               Sec. 3537. Buy America requirements for shipyard modernization and improvement program.
               Sec. 3538. Technical corrections.
               Division D—Funding Tables
               Sec. 4001. Authorization of amounts in funding tables.
               TITLE XLI—PROCUREMENT
               Sec. 4101. Procurement.
               TITLE XLII—RESEARCH, DEVELOPMENT, TEST, AND EVALUATION
               Sec. 4201. Research, development, test, and evaluation.
               TITLE XLIII—OPERATION AND MAINTENANCE
               Sec. 4301. Operation and maintenance.
               TITLE XLIV—MILITARY PERSONNEL
               Sec. 4401. Military personnel.
               TITLE XLV—OTHER AUTHORIZATIONS
               Sec. 4501. Other authorizations.
               TITLE XLVI—MILITARY CONSTRUCTION
               Sec. 4601. Military construction.
               TITLE XLVII—DEPARTMENT OF ENERGY NATIONAL SECURITY PROGRAMS
               Sec. 4701. Department of energy national security programs.
            
         
      
      
         3.
         CONGRESSIONAL DEFENSE COMMITTEES
         In this Act, the term congressional defense committees has the meaning given that term in section 101(a)(16) of title 10, United States Code.
      
      
         A
         DEPARTMENT OF DEFENSE AUTHORIZATIONS
         
            I
            PROCUREMENT
            
               A
               Authorization of Appropriations
               
                  101.
                  AUTHORIZATION OF APPROPRIATIONS
                  Funds are hereby authorized to be appropriated for fiscal year 2025 for procurement for the Army, the Navy and the Marine Corps, the Air Force and the Space Force, and Defense-wide activities, as specified in the funding table in section 4101.
               
            
            
               B
               Army Programs
               
                  111.
                  PILOT PROGRAM ON THE USE OF ROBOTIC TARGETS TO ENHANCE THE LETHALITY OF THE RESERVE COMPONENTS OF THE ARMY
                  
                     (a)
                     Establishment
                     The Secretary of the Army shall carry out a pilot program under which the Secretary incorporates the use of moving robotic target systems into live fire training provided to select infantry units of the reserve and National Guard components of the Army.
                  
                  
                     (b)
                     Designation
                     The pilot program under subsection (a) shall be known as the Lethality and Warfighting Enhancement Program.
                  
                  
                     (c)
                     Locations
                     The Secretary of the Army shall select not fewer than three military installations at which to conduct the pilot program under subsection (a).
                  
                  
                     (d)
                     Objectives
                     The objectives of the pilot program under subsection (a) shall be—
                     
                        (1)
                        to increase the lethality of the combined fighting force of the Army by providing reserve component and National Guard infantry units with the opportunity to conduct realistic live fire training on state-of-the-art moving robotic target systems; and
                     
                     
                        (2)
                        to demonstrate the effect of such training on small arms proficiency and lethality in ground combat operations.
                     
                  
                  
                     (e)
                     Selection of participating units
                     The Secretary of the Army shall select infantry units of the reserve components of the Army to participate in the pilot program under subsection (a) taking into consideration—
                     
                        (1)
                        the past performance of the unit;
                     
                     
                        (2)
                        the readiness status of the unit, with an emphasis on providing training to those units designated as preparing to deploy or at a similarly designated readiness status; and
                     
                     
                        (3)
                        the likelihood that a unit would be actively deployed or commanded to conduct decisive action.
                     
                  
                  
                     (f)
                     Commencement
                     The Secretary of the Army shall commence the pilot program under subsection (a) not later than 180 days after the date of the enactment of this Act.
                  
                  
                     (g)
                     Termination
                     The pilot program under subsection (a) shall terminate five years after the date of the enactment of this Act.
                  
                  
                     (h)
                     Briefings
                     Not later than 90 days after concluding activities under the pilot program at a military installation selected under subsection (c), the Secretary of the Army shall provide to the Committees on Armed Services of the Senate and the House of Representatives a briefing that includes a description of—
                     
                        (1)
                        the manner in which the program was conducted at such installation; and
                     
                     
                        (2)
                        any results achieved under the program at such installation.
                     
                  
                  
                     (i)
                     Contract authority
                     
                        (1)
                        In general
                        The Secretary of the Army is authorized to enter into one or more contracts for the procurement of moving robotic target systems for use in the pilot program under subsection (a).
                     
                     
                        (2)
                        Required capabilities
                        Robotic target systems procured under paragraph (1) shall be capable of—
                        
                           (A)
                           conducting multiple realistic offensive and defensive scenarios in a single training session that are consistent with combat operations;
                        
                        
                           (B)
                           operating in an unpredictable, realistic, and reactionary fashion;
                        
                        
                           (C)
                           objectively scoring trainee performance;
                        
                        
                           (D)
                           maneuvering across diverse geographic landscapes, including snow, ice, soft soils, extreme heat, extreme cold, wooded terrain and offroad areas;
                        
                        
                           (E)
                           operating at distances greater than 100 yards from the range operator;
                        
                        
                           (F)
                           surviving live fire from 6.8 mm rounds and the Next Generation Squad Weapon of the Army; and
                        
                        
                           (G)
                           fully functioning in all reasonably expected weather conditions.
                        
                     
                  
               
               
                  112.
                  LIMITATION ON PROCUREMENT OF END ITEMS CONTAINING ENERGETIC MATERIALS PENDING CERTIFICATION ON DOMESTIC PRODUCTION CAPACITY
                  
                     (a)
                     Limitation
                     The Secretary of the Army may not procure, from a covered source, an end item containing energetic materials that are in production at a Federal Government-owned production facility until the date on which the Secretary submits to the congressional defense committees—
                     
                        (1)
                        a certification from the Secretary indicating that Federal Government-owned production facilities for such materials in the United States have reached production capacity;
                     
                     
                        (2)
                        a summary of the information on which such certification is based.
                     
                  
                  
                     (b)
                     Waiver
                     The Secretary of the Army may waive the limitation under subsection (a) with respect to an end item for a period of up to one fiscal year if the Secretary determines that the waiver is necessary for reasons of national security. Whenever the Secretary makes such a waiver, the Secretary shall notify the congressional defense committees of the waiver and the reasons for the waiver.
                  
                  
                     (c)
                     Definitions
                     In this section:
                     
                        (1)
                        The term covered source means any provider of energetic materials outside of the United States.
                     
                     
                        (2)
                        The term end item has the meaning given that term in section 4863(m) of title 10, United States Code.
                     
                     
                        (3)
                        The term energetic materials means critical chemicals and formulations that—
                        
                           (A)
                           release large amounts of stored chemical energy; and
                        
                        
                           (B)
                           are capable of being used as explosives, propellants, pyrotechnics, and reactive materials that create lethal effects in warheads in kinetic weapons components and systems.
                        
                     
                  
               
               
                  113.
                  REPORT ON BLACK HAWK HELICOPTER PROGRAM
                  
                     (a)
                     In general
                     Not later than 30 days after the date on which the budget of the President for fiscal year 2026 is submitted to Congress pursuant to section 1105 of title 31, United States Code, the Secretary of the Army shall submit to the congressional defense committees a report on Modernization of the Black Hawk helicopter program of the Army.
                  
                  
                     (b)
                     Elements
                     The report required under subsection (a) shall include the following:
                     
                        (1)
                        Identification of the program elements and level of funding requested for the Black Hawk Modernization program for the period of fiscal years 2026 through 2030 set forth separately by fiscal year and appropriations account.
                     
                     
                        (2)
                        Requirements for the program that are sufficient to ensure the Black Hawk helicopters of the Army are systematically modernized to address obsolescence, improve performance, and provide capabilities that ensure relevance in the joint all domain operational environment.
                     
                     
                        (3)
                        A program acquisition strategy for Black Hawk Modernization.
                     
                  
               
               
                  114.
                  PLAN FOR PROVIDING CERTAIN AIRCRAFT TO THE ARMY NATIONAL GUARD
                  
                     (a)
                     Plan required
                     Not later than 30 days after the date of the enactment of this Act, the Secretary of the Army shall submit to the congressional defense committees a plan for providing the aircraft described in subsection (b) to relevant aviation units of the Army National Guard in a manner that is concurrent with and in proportion to the manner in which such aircraft are provided to active duty Army aviation units.
                  
                  
                     (b)
                     Aircraft described
                     The aircraft described in this subsection are the following:
                     
                        (1)
                        AH–64E aircraft.
                     
                     
                        (2)
                        MQ–1C M25 aircraft.
                     
                     
                        (3)
                        CH–47 aircraft.
                     
                     
                        (4)
                        UH–60M aircraft.
                     
                     
                        (5)
                        Future Long-Range Assault Aircraft.
                     
                  
               
               
                  115.
                  DEVELOPMENT OF REQUIREMENT FOR SHIPPING CONTAINER PRODUCTION FACILITY AT DOMESTIC ARMY INSTALLATION
                  
                     (a)
                     Findings
                     Congress finds the following:
                     
                        (1)
                        House Report 118–301 accompanying the National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2024 (Public Law 118–31) directed the Secretary of the Army, in coordination with the Commanding General, Army Materiel Command and the Assistant Secretary of the Army for Acquisition, Logistics, and Technology to provide a briefing on the costs and estimated funding profile as it relates to the organic industrial base modernization strategy, and facility efforts required to support opportunities for organic industrial base augmentation at Blue Grass Army Depot in Kentucky.
                     
                     
                        (2)
                        The briefing was directed to explore Blue Grass Army Depot as a potential site for the production of metal shipping containers.
                     
                     
                        (3)
                        Limited domestic production, coupled with the concentration of global shipping container manufacturing in and around China, is a strategic deployment and sustainment risk for United States forces.
                     
                     
                        (4)
                        China produces most shipping containers and the Department of Defense sources nearly all containers from Asia or assembles container kits in the United States from foreign-producers.
                     
                     
                        (5)
                        Establishing a domestic source for metal shipping containers would reduce reliance on foreign sources.
                     
                  
                  
                     (b)
                     Shipping container requirement
                     Not later than 180 days after the date of the enactment of this Act, the Secretary of Defense, in coordination with the Secretary of the Army, the Commanding General of the Army Materiel Command, and the Assistant Secretary of the Army for Acquisition, Logistics, and Technology, shall develop a requirement for the establishment of a shipping container production facility within the United States at an Army installation found to meet feasibility and readiness goals. 
                  
               
            
            
               C
               Navy Programs
               
                  131.
                  MODIFICATION OF ANNUAL REPORT ON COST TARGETS FOR CERTAIN AIRCRAFT CARRIERS
                  Section 126(c) of the National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2017 (Public Law 114–328; 130 Stat. 2035) is amended—
                  
                     (1)
                     in the subsection heading, by striking 
                           and CVN–81
                        ; and inserting 
                           CVN–81, and subsequent carriers
                        ;
                  
                  
                     (2)
                     in paragraph (1) by striking and the CVN–81 and inserting the CVN–81, and each subsequent Ford-class aircraft carrier;
                  
                  
                     (3)
                     in paragraph (2)—
                     
                        (A)
                        in the matter preceding subparagraph (A), by striking and the CVN–81 and inserting the CVN–81, and each subsequent Ford-class aircraft carrier; and
                     
                     
                        (B)
                        by adding at the end the following new subparagraphs:
                        
                           
                              (H)
                              A comparison of the ship cost baseline to the most recent budget estimate available as of the date of the report, set forth separately for costs related to—
                              
                                 (i)
                                 development;
                              
                              
                                 (ii)
                                 procurement; and
                              
                              
                                 (iii)
                                 operations and sustainment.
                              
                           
                           
                              (I)
                              For each contract that requires the production of a contract performance report, estimates from the contractor and program manager of—
                              
                                 (i)
                                 the total cost of the ship at completion, taking into account any changes in costs known or anticipated as of the date of the report; and
                              
                              
                                 (ii)
                                 the schedule for completion of the ship, taking into account any variances to such schedule known or anticipated as of the date of the report.
                              
                           
                           ; and
                        
                     
                  
                  
                     (4)
                     by adding at the end the following new paragraph:
                     
                        
                           (3)
                           Commencement and termination of reporting
                           The requirement to submit a report with respect to a Ford-class aircraft carrier under paragraph (1) shall—
                           
                              (A)
                              begin in the year following the first fiscal year for which funds are appropriated for the procurement of the carrier; and
                           
                           
                              (B)
                              end on the date the carrier reaches its obligation work limiting date.
                           
                        
                        .
                     
                  
               
               
                  132.
                  PROCUREMENT AUTHORITIES FOR CERTAIN AMPHIBIOUS SHIPBUILDING PROGRAMS
                  Section 129(c) of the James M. Inhofe National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2023 (Public Law 117–263) is amended by inserting across programs after advance procurement. 
               
               
                  133.
                  MULTIYEAR PROCUREMENT AUTHORITY FOR CH–53K AIRCRAFT AND T408 ENGINES
                  
                     (a)
                     Authority for multiyear procurement
                     Subject to section 3501 of title 10, United States Code, the Secretary of the Navy may enter into one or more multiyear contracts, beginning with the fiscal year 2025 program year, for the procurement of the following:
                     
                        (1)
                        CH–53K aircraft.
                     
                     
                        (2)
                        T408 engines for such aircraft.
                     
                  
                  
                     (b)
                     Condition for out-year contract payments
                     A contract entered into under subsection (a) shall provide that any obligation of the United States to make a payment under the contract for a fiscal year after fiscal year 2025 is subject to the availability of appropriations or funds for that purpose for such later fiscal year.
                  
                  
                     (c)
                     Authority for advance procurement
                     The Secretary of the Navy may enter into one or more contracts, beginning in fiscal year 2025, for advance procurement associated with the aircraft and engines for which authorization to enter into a multiyear procurement contract is provided under subsection (a), which may include procurement of economic order quantities of material and equipment for such aircraft or engines when cost savings are achievable.
                  
               
               
                  134.
                  RECAPITALIZATION OF TACTICAL FIGHTER AIRCRAFT OF THE NAVY RESERVE
                  
                     (a)
                     In general
                     The Secretary of the Navy shall ensure that all covered F–18 aircraft are—
                     
                        (1)
                        provided only to the Navy Reserve; and
                     
                     
                        (2)
                        used only to recapitalize and maintain, within the Navy Reserve—
                        
                           (A)
                           a deployable tactical strike-fighter capability; and
                        
                        
                           (B)
                           a threat representative adversary support capability that may be used in support of training activities of the Department of Defense.
                        
                     
                  
                  
                     (b)
                     Covered F–18 aircraft defined
                     In this section, the term covered F–18 aircraft means any F/A–18E/F Super Hornet aircraft procured using funds appropriated for the Navy for fiscal year 2022 or fiscal year 2023.
                  
               
               
                  135.
                  DESIGNATION OF OFFICIAL RESPONSIBLE FOR AUTONOMOUS SURFACE AND UNDERWATER DUAL-MODALITY VEHICLES
                  
                     (a)
                     Designation required
                     Not later than 180 days after the date of the enactment of this Act, the Secretary of the Navy shall designate an appropriate official within the Department of the Navy to have primary responsibility for the development and acquisition of dual-modality, advanced autonomous vehicles, consistent with warfighter requirements.
                  
                  
                     (b)
                     Program element
                     The Secretary of the Navy shall ensure, within budget program elements for the Navy, that there is a dedicated program element for the development and acquisition of dual-modality, advanced autonomous vehicles.
                  
               
               
                  136.
                  LIMITATION ON AVAILABILITY OF FUNDS FOR MEDIUM LANDING SHIP PENDING CERTIFICATION AND REPORT
                  None of the funds authorized to be appropriated by this Act or otherwise made available for fiscal year 2025 for the Navy may be obligated or expended to procure a Medium Landing Ship until the date on which the Secretary of the Navy submits to the congressional defense committees—
                  
                     (1)
                     a certification from the Secretary confirming that not more than 35 percent of the design requirements for the Medium Landing Ship are based on military specifications (as determined based on the capabilities development document for the ship); and
                  
                  
                     (2)
                     a report that includes a comparison of the difference in construction costs and delivery timelines, on a per vessel basis, between—
                     
                        (A)
                        constructing the Medium Landing Ship using military specifications; and
                     
                     
                        (B)
                        constructing such ship using commercial standards and commercial design elements.
                     
                  
               
               
                  137.
                  LIMITATION ON STRUCTURAL IMPROVEMENTS AND ELECTRICAL POWER UPGRADES FOR AH–1Z AND UH–1Y HELICOPTERS
                  
                     (a)
                     Limitation
                     The Secretary of the Navy may not carry out covered upgrades to AH–1Z Viper and UH–1Y Venom helicopters at a location other than a facility owned by the original equipment manufacturer for such helicopters until the date on which the Secretary certifies to the Committees on Armed Services of the Senate and the House of Representatives that the plan for carrying out covered upgrades at location other than a facility owned by the original equipment manufacturer is expected—
                     
                        (1)
                        to result in greater performance, survivability, lethality, interoperability, mission execution, and overall safety of the helicopter platform than would otherwise be achievable by completing such upgrades at a facility owned by the original equipment manufacturer for the model of helicopter involved;
                     
                     
                        (2)
                        to provide improved onboard electrical power capacity and ensure adequate power margin for integrating future capabilities;
                     
                     
                        (3)
                        to improve and expand future weapons interfaces; and
                     
                     
                        (4)
                        to allow for improved ease of maintenance.
                     
                  
                  
                     (b)
                     Covered upgrades
                     In this section, the term covered upgrades means any structural improvements or electrical power upgrades for AH–1Z viper or UH–1Y venom helicopters.
                  
               
               
                  138.
                  SENSE OF CONGRESS ON AIRCRAFT CARRIER PROCUREMENT
                  
                     (a)
                     Findings
                     Congress finds the following:
                     
                        (1)
                        The aircraft carriers of the Navy are a cornerstone of the Nation’s ability to project its power and strength.
                     
                     
                        (2)
                        Construction of Gerald R. Ford-class aircraft carriers represents a national effort which requires predictable and stable build schedules and alignment of purpose between the Department of Defense, the Department of the Navy, and the aircraft carrier industrial base.
                     
                     
                        (3)
                        The aircraft carrier industrial base includes more than 2,000 companies in 44 states that contribute to the construction and maintenance of these complex and technologically advanced ships.
                     
                     
                        (4)
                        The benefits of stable, executable aircraft carrier procurement plans extend throughout the aircraft carrier industrial base, promoting the development and retention of highly-skilled workforces and capital investments in world-class manufacturing and shipbuilding facilities throughout the Nation. 
                     
                     
                        (5)
                        Aircraft carrier procurement plans accompanying the President’s budget request for fiscal years 2023 and 2024 forecast procurement of CVN–82 in fiscal year 2028, however, the fiscal year 2025 plan defers procurement until fiscal year 2030, creating a significant and destabilizing production gap for the aircraft carrier industrial base.
                     
                  
                  
                     (b)
                     Sense of Congress
                     It is the sense of Congress that—
                     
                        (1)
                        the Secretary of Defense and the Secretary of the Navy should implement aircraft carrier acquisition strategies that maximize benefits to operational commanders while simultaneously protecting the interests of the taxpayer and supporting the national nuclear shipbuilding industrial base;
                     
                     
                        (2)
                        the Secretary of Defense and the Secretary of the Navy should review and revise the acquisition strategy, including a two-ship buy of CVN–82 and CVN–83, for Ford-class aircraft carriers in the President’s budget request for fiscal year 2026 to ensure it is consistent with accepted shipbuilding industrial base analyses, prior Department recommendations, reports to Congress, congressional resolutions, section 8062 of title 10, United States Code, and national security interests; and
                     
                     
                        (3)
                        the Secretary of Defense should request procurement of the CVN–82 carrier not later than fiscal year 2028.
                     
                  
               
            
            
               D
               Air Force Programs
               
                  151.
                  MODIFICATION OF MINIMUM INVENTORY REQUIREMENT FOR AIR REFUELING TANKER AIRCRAFT
                  
                     (a)
                     Minimum inventory requirement
                     
                        (1)
                        In general
                        Section 9062(j) of title 10, United States Code, is amended by striking 466 each place it appears and inserting 474.
                     
                     
                        (2)
                        Effective date
                        The amendments made by paragraph (1) shall take effect on October 1, 2024.
                     
                  
                  
                     (b)
                     Prohibition on reduction of KC–135 aircraft in PMAI of the reserve components
                     
                        (1)
                        In general
                        None of the funds authorized to be appropriated by this Act or otherwise made available for fiscal year 2025 for the Air Force may be obligated or expended to reduce the number of KC–135 aircraft designated as primary mission aircraft inventory within the reserve components of the Air Force.
                     
                     
                        (2)
                        Primary mission aircraft inventory defined
                        In this subsection, the term primary mission aircraft inventory has the meaning given that term in section 9062(i)(2)(B) of title 10, United States Code.
                     
                  
               
               
                  152.
                  MODIFICATION OF CERTAIN PRIMARY MISSION AIRCRAFT INVENTORY REQUIREMENTS FOR THE COMBAT AIR FORCES OF THE AIR FORCE
                  
                     (a)
                     Fighter aircraft minimum inventory requirement
                     Subsection (i)(1) of section 9062 of title 10, United States Code, is amended by striking 1,145 fighter aircraft and inserting 1,106 fighter aircraft.
                  
                  
                     (b)
                     A-10 aircraft minimum inventory requirement
                     Section 134(d) of the National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2017 (Public Law 114–328; 130 Stat. 2038) is amended by striking 135 A–10 aircraft and inserting 96 A–10 aircraft.
                  
               
               
                  153.
                  EXTENSION OF REQUIREMENTS RELATING TO C–130 AIRCRAFT
                  
                     (a)
                     Extension of minimum inventory requirement
                     Section 146(a)(3)(B) of the James M. Inhofe National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2023 (Public Law 117–263; 136 Stat. 2455), as amended by section 134(a) of the National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2024 (Public Law 118–31), is amended by striking 2024 and inserting 2025.
                  
                  
                     (b)
                     Extension of prohibition on reduction of C-130 aircraft assigned to National Guard
                     Section 146(b)(1) of the James M. Inhofe National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2023 (Public Law 117–263; 136 Stat. 2455), as amended by section 134(b) of the National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2024 (Public Law 118–31), is amended by striking During fiscal years 2023 and 2024 and inserting During the period of fiscal years 2023 through 2025.
                  
               
               
                  154.
                  LIMITATION ON RETIREMENT OF F–15E AIRCRAFT PENDING FIGHTER AIRCRAFT CAPABILITIES AND REQUIREMENTS STUDY
                  
                     (a)
                     Limitation on retirement of F–15E aircraft
                     
                        (1)
                        In general
                        The Secretary of the Air Force may not retire, prepare to retire, or place in storage or on backup aircraft inventory status any F–15E aircraft until a period of 180 days has elapsed following the date on which the Secretary of Defense provides to the congressional defense committees the reports and briefing required under subsection (b)(3).
                     
                     
                        (2)
                        Exception
                        The prohibition under paragraph (1) of shall not apply to individual F–15E aircraft that the Secretary of the Air Force determines, on a case by case basis, to be no longer mission capable and uneconomical to repair because of aircraft accidents, mishaps, or excessive material degradation and non-airworthiness status of certain aircraft.
                     
                     
                        (3)
                        Conforming repeal
                        Section 9062 of title 10, United States Code, as most recently amended by sections 131 and 132 of the National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2024 (Public Law 118–31), is amended—
                        
                           (A)
                           by striking subsection (l); and
                        
                        
                           (B)
                           by redesignating subsection (m) as subsection (l).
                        
                     
                  
                  
                     (b)
                     Fighter aircraft capabilities and requirements study
                     
                        (1)
                        Study
                        The Secretary of Defense shall seek to enter into a contract or other agreement with a federally funded research and development center pursuant to which the center shall carry out—
                        
                           (A)
                           an analysis of the fighter aircraft procurement, fielding, and divestment plan of the Department of the Air Force, as submitted to Congress in accordance with section 148 of the National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2024 (Public Law 118–31; 137 Stat. 178); and
                        
                        
                           (B)
                           a fighter aircraft capability and requirements study that estimates the number of fighter aircraft needed by the Air Force to meet the requirements of combatant commanders.
                        
                     
                     
                        (2)
                        Report to Secretary
                        The federally funded research and development center that carries out the study and analysis under paragraph (1) shall submit to the Secretary of Defense a report on the results of such study and analysis.
                     
                     
                        (3)
                        Reports and briefing to Congress
                        Not later than December 31, 2025, the Secretary of Defense shall—
                        
                           (A)
                           submit to the congressional defense committees an unaltered copy of the report received by the Secretary under paragraph (2);
                        
                        
                           (B)
                           submit to such committees a separate report on the views of the Secretary with respect to the results of the study and analysis carried out under paragraph (1), which shall include—
                           
                              (i)
                              a detailed explanation of the strategy and methodology used to conduct the study and analysis, including any force sizing and shaping constructs, scenarios, and assumptions used as part of such study and analysis; and
                           
                           
                              (ii)
                              assessed operational risk based on the Chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff risk management classifications set forth the most recent version of the Chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff Manual 3105.01A, titled Joint Risk Analysis Methodology; and
                           
                        
                        
                           (C)
                           provide a briefing to the committees on such results.
                        
                     
                  
                  
                     (c)
                     Definitions
                     In this section, the term fighter aircraft means—
                     
                        (1)
                        F–15, F–16, F–22, and F–35 aircraft; and
                     
                     
                        (2)
                        the Next Generation Air Dominance piloted combat aircraft.
                     
                  
               
               
                  155.
                  LIMITATION ON USE OF FUNDS PENDING SUBMISSION OF REPORT ON PLAN FOR LONG-TERM AIR FORCE FIGHTER FORCE STRUCTURE
                  Of the amounts authorized to be appropriated by this Act or otherwise made available for the Department of Defense for fiscal year 2025 for the Secretary of the Air Force for official travel, not more than 75 percent may be obligated or expended until the date on which the Secretary of the Air Force submits to the congressional defense committees the report required under section 148(c) of the National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2024 (Public Law 118–31).
               
               
                  156.
                  RECAPITALIZATION OF AIR REFUELING TANKER AIRCRAFT OF THE RESERVE COMPONENTS OF THE AIR FORCE
                  
                     (a)
                     In general
                     The Secretary of the Air Force shall replace each covered reserve tanker aircraft with an aircraft that has capabilities equivalent to or exceeding the capabilities of the aircraft being replaced.
                  
                  
                     (b)
                     Waiver
                     The Secretary of the Air Force may waive the requirement to replace an air refueling tanker aircraft under subsection (a), on a case by case basis, if the Secretary determines that such replacement would degrade the readiness of the air refueling capability of the Air Force.
                  
                  
                     (c)
                     Sunset
                     This section shall terminate on October 1, 2025.
                  
                  
                     (d)
                     Covered reserve tanker aircraft defined
                     The term covered reserve tanker aircraft means an air refueling tanker aircraft of the reserve components of the Air Force.
                  
               
               
                  157.
                  CONSOLIDATION OF AUTHORITIES RELATING TO AIR FORCE LANDING GEAR
                  
                     (a)
                     In general
                     The Secretary of the Air Force shall transfer to the Air Force Sustainment Center supply chain management, item management, and delegated engineering authorities for landing gear systems of F–15EX, F–22, F–35, and T–7A aircraft.
                  
                  
                     (b)
                     Implementation plan
                     Not later than 120 days after the date of the enactment of this Act, the Secretary of the Air Force shall develop and initiate an implementation plan for the transfers required under subsection (a).
                  
                  
                     (c)
                     Report
                     Not later than 30 days after completing the development of the implementation plan required under subsection (b), the Secretary of the Air Force shall submit to the Committees on Armed Services of the House of Representatives and the Senate a report that includes a description of—
                     
                        (1)
                        the planned milestones for execution of the implementation plan;
                     
                     
                        (2)
                        any data, staff, and funding needed to effectively carry out such plan; and
                     
                     
                        (3)
                        the progress of the Secretary in meeting such milestones as of the date of the report. 
                     
                  
               
               
                  158.
                  NOTIFICATION OF DELAYS IN DELIVERY OF MH–139 AIRCRAFT
                  
                     (a)
                     Notice required
                     Not later than 30 days after becoming aware of an expected delay in the delivery date of an MH–139 aircraft, the Secretary of the Air Force shall submit to the Committees on Armed Services of the Senate and the House of Representatives written notice of such delay together with an explanation of the reasons for such delay.
                  
                  
                     (b)
                     Delivery date defined
                     In this section, the term delivery date, when used with respect to an MH–139 aircraft, means the date on which such aircraft is expected to be delivered to the Air Force under the most recent schedule for such delivery in effect as of the date of the enactment of this Act.
                  
               
               
                  159.
                  PLAN FOR ESTABLISHMENT AND MAINTENANCE OF F–16 SIMULATORS AT AIR NATIONAL GUARD TRAINING CENTERS
                  
                     (a)
                     In general
                     The Secretary of the Air Force, in coordination with the Director of the Air National Guard, shall develop and implement a plan to fully fund the establishment and maintenance of F–16 simulators at training centers of the Air National Guard as described in subsection (b).
                  
                  
                     (b)
                     Elements
                     The plan under subsection (a) shall include—
                     
                        (1)
                        an estimate of the costs of maintaining F–16 simulators at Air National Guard training centers that have such simulators as of the date of the plan;
                     
                     
                        (2)
                        an estimate of the costs of establishing F–16 simulators at all Air National Guard training centers that are required to, but do not, have such simulators as of the date of the plan, including training centers for Air National Guard units converting from the A–10 aircraft to the F–16 aircraft; and
                     
                     
                        (3)
                        a plan for allocating funding to pay the costs described in paragraphs (1) and (2), including the proportion of such funding expected to be provided by the Air Force and the Air National Guard, respectively.
                     
                  
                  
                     (c)
                     Report
                     Not later than March 1, 2025, the Secretary of the Air Force shall submit to the congressional defense committees a report that includes—
                     
                        (1)
                        the plan developed under subsection (a); and
                     
                     
                        (2)
                        an assessment from the Secretary and the Chief of the National Guard Bureau evaluating how the readiness of Air National Guard Units requiring F–16 simulators may be affected if such simulators are not established and maintained at mission training centers as required under the plan.
                     
                  
                  
                     (d)
                     Deadline for implementation
                     Not later than June 1, 2025, the Secretary of the Air Force and the Director of the Air National Guard shall commence implementation of the plan developed under subsection (a).
                  
               
               
                  160.
                  FUNDING FOR C-130 MODULAR AIRBORNE FIREFIGHTING SYSTEM
                  
                     (a)
                     Increase
                     Notwithstanding the amounts set forth in the funding tables in division D, the amount authorized to be appropriated in section 101 for aircraft procurement, Air Force, as specified in the corresponding funding table in section 4101, for other aircraft, C-130, line 049, is hereby increased by $20,000,000 (with the amount of such increase to be used for the modular airborne firefighting system).
                  
                  
                     (b)
                     Offset
                     Notwithstanding the amounts set forth in the funding tables in division D, the amount authorized to be appropriated in section 201 for research, development, test and evaluation, Air Force, as specified in the corresponding funding table in section 4201, for system development and demonstration, VC–25B, line 114, is hereby reduced by $20,000,000.
                  
               
               
                  161.
                  REQUIREMENT FOR MINIMUM NUMBER OF AIR LOGISTICS COMPLEXES
                  Section 9062 of title 10, United States Code, as amended by section 154(a)(3) of this Act, is further amended by adding at the end the following new subsection:
                  
                     
                        (m)
                        The Secretary of the Air Force shall continuously operate not fewer than three air logistics complexes. For purposes of this subsection, the term ‘air logistics complex’ means an air logistics complex operated by the Air Force as of January 1, 2024.
                     
                     .
                  
               
            
            
               E
               Defense-wide, Joint, and Multiservice Matters
               
                  171.
                  MODIFICATION TO AIR FORCE AND NAVY USE OF COMMERCIAL DUAL-USE PARTS IN CERTAIN AIRCRAFT AND ENGINES
                  Section 161 of the National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2023 (Public Law 117–263; 10 U.S.C. 3453 note) is amended—
                  
                     (1)
                     in the section heading, by striking 
                           used
                        ;
                  
                  
                     (2)
                     in subsection (a)(1), by inserting new, before used; and
                  
                  
                     (3)
                     in subsection (b)(2), by inserting , or from a certified production approval holder pursuant to part 21 of title 14, Code of Federal Regulations before the period at the end.
                  
               
               
                  172.
                  POLICY ON QUALIFICATIONS OF CONTRACTORS FOR INTO-PLANE FUEL DELIVERIES FOR HEAVY-LIFT AIRCRAFT
                  
                     (a)
                     Establishment of policy
                     Not later than one year after the date of enactment of this Act, the Director of the Defense Logistics Agency shall develop and implement a policy that establishes factors for determining the qualifications of fixed-based operators bidding on contracts to provide into-plane fuel deliveries for heavy-lift aircraft at airports with weight-bearing capacity to serve such aircraft.
                  
                  
                     (b)
                     Factors
                     With respect to the policy required under subsection (a), the factors for determining whether a fixed-based operator is qualified to provide into-plane fuel deliveries for heavy-lift aircraft may include the following:
                     
                        (1)
                        The fixed-base operator is able to maintain a minimum onsite fuel storage capacity equal to twice the preceding year’s peak day of fuel demand at the airport, at least half of which is comprised of fixed tanks.
                     
                     
                        (2)
                        Evidence that the fixed-base operator’s total number of employees is sufficient to service military customers 24 hours per day, 7 days per week, and 365 days per year.
                     
                     
                        (3)
                        The fixed-based operator is capable of performing a full range of cargo on-load, off-load, and handling operations, including for dangerous goods and cargo, for military aircraft of all sizes.
                     
                     
                        (4)
                        The fixed-base operator possesses an onsite, certified maintenance and repair station.
                     
                     
                        (5)
                        The fixed-based operator has an operational history of providing services to heavy-lift aircraft at the airport involved for at least three years preceding the operator’s bid to perform into-plane fuel deliveries.
                     
                     
                        (6)
                        Any other factors the Director of the Defense Logistics Agency determines appropriate. 
                     
                  
                  
                     (c)
                     Heavy-lift aircraft defined
                     In this section, the term heavy-lift aircraft means aircraft larger than 107,000-pound maximum gross takeoff weight.
                  
                  
                     (d)
                     Consultation
                     The Director of the Defense Logistics Agency shall consult with relevant heavy-lift aircraft mission planners in developing and implementing the policy required under this section.
                  
               
               
                  173.
                  PROHIBITION ON OPERATION, PROCUREMENT, AND CONTRACTING RELATED TO FOREIGN-MADE LIGHT DETECTION AND RANGING TECHNOLOGY
                  
                     (a)
                     Prohibition on agency operation or procurement
                     The Secretary of Defense shall not operate or enter into or renew a contract for the procurement of—
                     
                        (1)
                        a covered light detection and ranging technology (referred to in this section as LiDAR technology) that—
                        
                           (A)
                           is manufactured in a covered foreign country or by an entity domiciled in a covered foreign country;
                        
                        
                           (B)
                           uses operating software developed in a covered foreign country or by an entity domiciled in a covered foreign country; or
                        
                        
                           (C)
                           uses network connectivity or data storage located in or administered by an entity domiciled in a covered foreign country; or
                        
                     
                     
                        (2)
                        a system or systems that incorporates, interfaces with, or otherwise uses LiDAR technology as described in paragraph (1).
                     
                  
                  
                     (b)
                     Exemption
                     The prohibition under subsection (a) shall not apply if the operation, procurement, or contracting action is for the purposes of intelligence, electronic warfare, and information warfare operations, testing, analysis, and training.
                  
                  
                     (c)
                     Waiver
                     The Secretary of Defense may waive the prohibition under subsection (a) on a case-by-case basis if the Secretary certifies, in writing, to the congressional defense committees that the operation, procurement, or contracting action is required in the national interest of the United States.
                  
                  
                     (d)
                     Effective date
                     The prohibition under section (a) shall take effect on June 30, 2026.
                  
                  
                     (e)
                     Definitions
                     In this section:
                     
                        (1)
                        The term covered foreign country means any of the following:
                        
                           (A)
                           The People’s Republic of China.
                        
                        
                           (B)
                           The Islamic Republic of Iran.
                        
                        
                           (C)
                           The Democratic People’s Republic of North Korea.
                        
                        
                           (D)
                           The Russian Federation.
                        
                     
                     
                        (2)
                        The term covered LiDAR company means any of the following:
                        
                           (A)
                           Hesai Technology (or any subsidiary or affiliate of Hesai Technology).
                        
                        
                           (B)
                           Any entity that produces or provides LiDAR and that is included on—
                           
                              (i)
                              the Consolidated Screening List maintained by the International Trade Administration of the Department of Commerce; or
                           
                           
                              (ii)
                              the civil-military fusion list maintained under section 1260h of the William M. (Mac) Thornberry National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2021 (Public Law 116–283; 10 U.S.C. 113 note).
                           
                        
                        
                           (C)
                           Any entity that produces or provides LiDAR and that—
                           
                              (i)
                              is domiciled in a covered foreign country; or
                           
                           
                              (ii)
                              is subject to unmitigated foreign ownership, control or influence by a covered foreign country, as determined by the Secretary of Defense in accordance with the National Industrial Security Program or any successor to such program.
                           
                        
                     
                     
                        (3)
                        The term covered LiDAR technology means LiDAR technology and any related services and equipment manufactured by a covered LiDAR company.
                     
                     
                        (4)
                        The terms light detection and ranging and LiDAR mean a sensor that emits light, often in the form of a pulsed or modulated laser, and scans or flashes the environment to detect and measure the range of its surroundings.
                     
                  
               
               
                  174.
                  LIMITATION ON PROCUREMENT OF F–35 AIRCRAFT PENDING CERTIFICATION ON IMPROVEMENTS AND CORRECTION OF DEFICIENCIES
                  
                     (a)
                     Limitation
                     The Secretary of Defense may not accept or take delivery of covered F–35 aircraft in excess of the maximum quantities specified in subsection (c) until the date on which the Secretary certifies to the congressional defense committees that the Secretary is in compliance with each of the following requirements:
                     
                        (1)
                        The Secretary has developed and will implement an acquisition strategy, with appropriate actions and milestones, to develop and field F–35 aircraft and mission systems digital-twin models across the F–35 enterprise.
                     
                     
                        (2)
                        The Secretary has developed and will implement an acquisition strategy, with appropriate actions and milestones, to procure at least one new cooperative avionics flying test bed aircraft for the F–35 enterprise.
                     
                     
                        (3)
                        The Secretary has developed and will implement an acquisition strategy, with appropriate actions and milestones, to procure and construct a new F–35 mission software integration laboratory to enable concurrent testing of TR–2 and TR–3 mission system hardware, software, and any existing or new F–35 capabilities.
                     
                     
                        (4)
                        The Secretary has developed and will implement a plan of corrective actions and milestones to resolve all deficiencies and recommendations identified in the 2024 F–35 Initial Operational Testing and Evaluation report submitted to Congress by the Director of Operational Testing and Evaluation.
                     
                     
                        (5)
                        The Secretary has developed and will implement a plan of corrective actions and milestones to minimize F–35 new aircraft production interruptions and resolve all programmatic deficiencies with F–35 APG–85 radar hardware and software related to the development, testing, acceptance, certification, production, and fielding of the radar as identified by the Director of the F–35 Joint Program Office.
                     
                     
                        (6)
                        The Secretary has developed and will implement a plan of corrective actions and milestones to resolve all deficiencies and recommendations identified in the report of the F–35 software Independent Review Team commissioned by the Secretary of the Air Force and the Director of the F–35 Joint Program Office.
                     
                     
                        (7)
                        The Secretary has developed and will implement a corrective action plan with appropriate actions, milestones, necessary technical data and other resources, and metrics for measuring improvements, to address long-standing sustainment challenges and improve fleetwide mission capable and full mission capable rates for F–35 aircraft. At a minimum, such plan shall provide for—
                        
                           (A)
                           completing the set-up of military service depots and attaining the required production capacity;
                        
                        
                           (B)
                           addressing and mitigating corrosion, particularly in the F–35B and F–35C variants, including the necessary parts, equipment, technical data, and any necessary adjustments to squadron staffing to effectively conduct corrosion inspections and work;
                        
                        
                           (C)
                           improving the visibility and availability of assets and parts that detract from mission capable rates; and
                        
                        
                           (D)
                           developing mechanisms to surge supply support for the air vehicle and engine and ensure continuity of F–35 logistics and operations in contested environments.
                        
                     
                     
                        (8)
                        The Secretary has submitted all acquisition strategies and corrective action plans described in paragraphs (1) through (7) to the congressional defense committees as required under subsection (b).
                     
                     
                        (9)
                        The Secretary has met the requirements of subsections (b)(5) and (c) of section 226 of the National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2024 (Public Law 118–31; 137 Stat. 196).
                     
                  
                  
                     (b)
                     Submittal of plans and strategies to Congress
                     
                        (1)
                        In general
                        The Secretary of Defense shall submit to the congressional defense committees all acquisition strategies and corrective action plans described in paragraphs (1) through (7) of subsection (a).
                     
                     
                        (2)
                        Elements
                        Each strategy and plan submitted under paragraph (1) shall include—
                        
                           (A)
                           an estimate of the total amount of funds required to complete implementation of the strategy or plan;
                        
                        
                           (B)
                           realistic, event-driven schedules to achieve the objectives of the strategy or plan; and
                        
                        
                           (C)
                           a schedule risk assessment to a minimum of 80 percent confidence level.
                        
                     
                     
                        (3)
                        Form
                        Each strategy and plan described in paragraph (1) shall be submitted in unclassified form, but may contain a classified annex.
                     
                  
                  
                     (c)
                     Maximum quantities
                      The maximum quantities of covered F–35 aircraft specified in this subsection are the following:
                     
                        (1)
                        Thirty F–35A aircraft.
                     
                     
                        (2)
                        Nine F–35B aircraft.
                     
                     
                        (3)
                        Nine F–35C aircraft.
                     
                  
                  
                     (d)
                     Annual reports
                     
                        (1)
                        In general
                        Not later than April 1, 2025, and on an annual basis thereafter for the following five years, the Secretary of Defense shall submit to the congressional defense committees a report that includes a comprehensive update on all corrective action plans and acquisition strategies that—
                        
                           (A)
                           were developed pursuant to paragraphs (1) through (7) of subsection (a); and
                        
                        
                           (B)
                           are being implemented by the Secretary as of the date of the report.
                        
                     
                     
                        (2)
                        Form
                        Each report under paragraph (1) shall be submitted in unclassified form but may contain a classified annex.
                     
                  
                  
                     (e)
                     Covered F–35 aircraft defined
                     In this section, the term covered F–35 aircraft means new production F–35 aircraft—
                     
                        (1)
                        that are authorized to be procured using funds authorized to be appropriated by this Act or otherwise made available for fiscal year 2025 for the Department of Defense; and
                     
                     
                        (2)
                        the procurement of which is fully funded by the United States.
                     
                  
               
               
                  175.
                  ASSESSMENT OF AIR-TO-AIR MISSILE INVENTORY REQUIREMENTS AND RELATED CAPABILITIES
                  
                     (a)
                     Assessment of air-to-air missile inventory
                     
                        (1)
                        In general
                        The Secretary of the Air Force and the Secretary of the Navy, in coordination with the commanders of the combatant commands, shall jointly conduct an assessment of the sufficiency of established inventory requirements for air-to-air missiles within the Armed Forces under the jurisdiction of such Secretaries.
                     
                     
                        (2)
                        Elements
                        In conducting the assessment required under paragraph (1), the Secretaries shall evaluate—
                        
                           (A)
                           for each year through the end of 2029—
                           
                              (i)
                              the numbers and types of air-to-air missiles expected to be delivered to the Department of the Air Force and the Department of the Navy in such year; and
                           
                           
                              (ii)
                              the total inventory of air-to-air missiles expected to be available for use in such year, considered separately for each type of missile;
                           
                        
                        
                           (B)
                           the inventory levels of air-to-air missiles needed to support the operational plans of the United States Central Command, the United States Indo-Pacific Command, the United States Northern Command, and the United States European Command, assessed separately for each command at low, medium, and high risk levels;
                        
                        
                           (C)
                           emerging requirements for surface-to-air defense and collaborative combat aircraft capabilities, and how such emerging requirements are expected to impact inventory requirements for air-to-air missiles;
                        
                        
                           (D)
                           whether the numbers and types of missiles expected to be delivered through 2029, as determined under subparagraph (A), are sufficient to meet all testing, training, and operational requirements of the military departments and combatant commands;
                        
                        
                           (E)
                           whether extending the AIM–120 Advanced Medium-Range Air-to-Air Missile program of record through 2029 would enhance available inventories of air-to-air missiles during such period; and
                        
                        
                           (F)
                           recommendations to adjust the planned missile mix, to include development and fielding of an AIM–120D Extended Range missile and procurement quantities to support combined combatant command requirements at a medium-level of operational risk.
                        
                     
                  
                  
                     (b)
                     Assessment of AIM–120D extended range missile
                     
                        (1)
                        In general
                        In conjunction with the assessment required under subsection (a), the Secretary of the Air Force shall conduct a cost-benefit and technical risk assessment of developing and procuring an extended range AIM–120D missile.
                     
                     
                        (2)
                        Elements
                        In conducting the assessment under paragraph (1), the Secretary of the Air Force shall—
                        
                           (A)
                           assess the costs, benefits, and technical risks presented by the potential development and procurement of an extended range AIM–120D missile as described in paragraph (1);
                        
                        
                           (B)
                           evaluate how new propellants, binding agents, and other enhancements may increase the capabilities of such a missile;
                        
                        
                           (C)
                           consider how the procurement of such a missile could hedge against current or future air-to-air missile inventory, capacity, capability or shortfall risks; and
                        
                        
                           (D)
                           develop a budget profile and schedule that would support expedited fielding of such a missile.
                        
                     
                  
                  
                     (c)
                     Report
                     Following the completion of the assessments required under subsections (a) and (b), but not later than April 1, 2025—
                     
                        (1)
                        the Secretary of the Air Force and the Secretary of the Navy shall jointly submit to the congressional defense committees a report on the results of the assessment conducted under subsection (a), which shall include a summary of the results of the assessment with respect to each element specified in subsection (a)(2); and
                     
                     
                        (2)
                        the Secretary of the Air Force shall submit to the congressional defense committees a report on the results of the assessment conducted under subsection (b), which shall include a copy of the budget profile and schedule required under subsection (b)(2)(D).
                     
                  
               
               
                  176.
                  MODIFICATION TO MULTIYEAR PROCUREMENT AUTHORITY FOR CERTAIN CRITICAL MINERALS
                  Section 152 of the National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2024 (Public Law 118–31; 137 Stat. 180; 50 U.S.C. 98e-2) is amended—
                  
                     (1)
                     in the heading, by inserting 
                           strategic and
                         after 
                           domestically processed
                        ;
                  
                  
                     (2)
                     in subsection (a), by striking the procurement of and all that follows and inserting the following: the procurement of strategic and critical materials that are mined, processed, or produced in the United States.;
                  
                  
                     (3)
                     in subsection (c), by striking the domestically processed critical minerals and inserting the strategic and critical materials;
                  
                  
                     (4)
                     by redesignating subsection (e) as subsection (f);
                  
                  
                     (5)
                     by inserting after subsection (d) the following new subsection:
                     
                        
                           (e)
                           Priority
                           In carrying out the activities described in this section, the Secretary may give priority to the procurement of strategic and critical materials that are derived from recycled and reused minerals and metals to the maximum extent practicable, and from terrestrial mines that do not cause harm to the natural or cultural resources of Tribal communities or sovereign nations or result in degraded ground or surface water.
                        
                        ; and
                     
                  
                  
                     (6)
                     in subsection (f), as so redesignated—
                     
                        (A)
                        by amending paragraph (1) to read as follows:
                        
                           
                              (1)
                              The term strategic and critical material means a material determined to be a strategic or critical material under section 3(a) of the Strategic and Critical Materials Stock Piling Act (50 U.S.C. 98b(a)).
                           
                           ; and
                        
                     
                     
                        (B)
                        by adding at the end the following new paragraph:
                        
                           
                              (4)
                              The term produced means formed, assembled, manufactured, or systems integrated.
                           
                           .
                        
                     
                  
               
               
                  177.
                  SENSE OF CONGRESS ON DOMESTIC PROCUREMENT OF DEFENSE ARTICLES FOR AUKUS PARTNERSHIP
                  
                     (a)
                     In general
                     It is the sense of Congress that—
                     
                        (1)
                        researching, producing, and procuring defense articles for the AUKUS partnership from within the United States boosts local economies and improves national security by enhancing domestic defense article production capabilities; and
                     
                     
                        (2)
                        therefore, the Secretary of Defense should promote and prioritize domestic manufacturing, supply chains, and research for defense articles intended for use by members of the AUKUS partnership.
                     
                  
                  
                     (b)
                     AUKUS partnership defined
                     In this section, the term AUKUS partnership means the enhanced trilateral security partnership between Australia, the United Kingdom, and the United States announced in September 2021.
                  
               
               
                  178.
                  STUDY TO IDENTIFY SOURCES OF SECURE PARTS FOR UNMANNED AIRCRAFT SYSTEMS
                  
                     (a)
                     Study
                     The Under Secretary of Defense for Acquisition and Sustainment shall conduct a study to identify sources of secure parts for unmanned aircraft systems. For purposes of the study, a part shall be considered secure if it—
                     
                        (1)
                        is not produced or sold by a Chinese military company (as defined in section 1260H of the National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2021 (Public Law 116–283; 10 U.S.C. 113 note));
                     
                     
                        (2)
                        will not be used for a sensitive platform, such as the F–35 aircraft;
                     
                     
                        (3)
                        does not connect to wireless or other data networks; and
                     
                     
                        (4)
                        meets such other criteria as may be established by the Under Secretary.
                     
                  
                  
                     (b)
                     Report
                     Not later than one year after the date of the enactment of this Act, the Under Secretary of Defense for Acquisition and Sustainment shall submit to the congressional defense committees a report on the results of the study conducted under subsection (a).
                  
               
            
         
         
            II
            RESEARCH, DEVELOPMENT, TEST, AND EVALUATION
            
               A
               Authorization of Appropriations
               
                  201.
                  AUTHORIZATION OF APPROPRIATIONS
                  Funds are hereby authorized to be appropriated for fiscal year 2025 for the use of the Department of Defense for research, development, test, and evaluation, as specified in the funding table in section 4201.
               
               
                  202.
                  FUNDING FOR NATIONAL DEFENSE EDUCATION PROGRAM
                  
                     (a)
                     Increase
                     Notwithstanding the amounts set forth in the funding tables in division D, the amount authorized to be appropriated in section 201 for research, development, test, and evaluation, Defense-wide, as specified in the corresponding funding table in section 4201, for basic research, National Defense Education Program, line 6, is hereby increased by $5,000,000.
                  
                  
                     (b)
                     Offset
                     Notwithstanding the amounts set forth in the funding tables in division D, the amount authorized to be appropriated in section 4301 for Operation and Maintenance, Defense-wide, for Washington Headquarters Services, line 480, as specified in the corresponding funding table in section 4301, is hereby reduced by $5,000,000.
                  
               
            
            
               B
               Program Requirements, Restrictions, and Limitations
               
                  211.
                  MODIFICATION OF CERTAIN REQUIREMENTS RELATING TO THE JOINT ENERGETICS TRANSITION OFFICE
                  Section 148 of title 10, United States Code, is amended—
                  
                     (1)
                     by redesignating subsection (e) as subsection (f); and
                  
                  
                     (2)
                     by striking subsection (d) and inserting the following new subsections:
                     
                        
                           (d)
                           Budgeting and funding requirements
                           
                              (1)
                              The Secretary of Defense shall ensure that the Office is budgeted for and funded in a manner sufficient to ensure the Office has the staff and other resources necessary to effectively carry out the responsibilities specified in subsection (c).
                           
                           
                              (2)
                              In the budget justification materials submitted to Congress in support of the Department of Defense budget for fiscal year 2027 and each fiscal year thereafter (as submitted with the budget of the President under section 1105(a) of title 31), the Secretary of Defense shall include a dedicated budget line item for the implementation of subsection (a) and for the testing and evaluation of energetic materials and technologies by the Office.
                           
                        
                        
                           (e)
                           Standards and best practices curriculum
                           
                              (1)
                              The Under Secretary of Defense for Research and Engineering, in coordination with the Under Secretary of Defense for Acquisition and Sustainment, shall include, within the program management and engineering curriculum of the Defense Acquisition University, instruction in standards and best practices for the development of energetic materials and ensuring the safety of explosives.
                           
                           
                              (2)
                              In carrying out paragraph (1), the Under Secretaries shall consult with—
                              
                                 (A)
                                 the President of the Defense Acquisition University; and
                              
                              
                                 (B)
                                 individuals and organizations in academia and industry with relevant expertise in the field of energetics.
                              
                           
                        
                        .
                     
                  
               
               
                  212.
                  MODIFICATION TO ANNUAL REPORT ON UNFUNDED PRIORITIES OF THE UNDER SECRETARY OF DEFENSE FOR RESEARCH AND ENGINEERING
                  The second section 222e of title 10, United States Code, is amended—
                  
                     (1)
                     in subsection (a), by striking the Secretary of Defense shall and inserting the Secretary of Defense, after coordinating with the Secretaries of the military departments, shall; and
                  
                  
                     (2)
                     in subsection (e)—
                     
                        (A)
                        in paragraph (1), by striking and at the end;
                     
                     
                        (B)
                        in paragraph (2), by striking the period at the end and inserting ; and; and
                     
                     
                        (C)
                        by adding at the end the following new paragraph:
                        
                           
                              (3)
                              in the case of military construction project, has reached a stage of planning and design that is sufficient to support a reliable cost estimate.
                           
                           .
                        
                     
                  
               
               
                  213.
                  MODIFICATION TO DEFENSE LABORATORY EDUCATION PARTNERSHIPS
                  Section 2194(b) of title 10, United States Code, is amended—
                  
                     (1)
                     in paragraph (6), by striking and at the end;
                  
                  
                     (2)
                     in paragraph (7), by striking the period at the end and inserting ; and; and
                  
                  
                     (3)
                     by adding at the end the following new paragraph:
                     
                        
                           (8)
                           entering into contracts or cooperative agreements with, or making grants to, the institution to provide financial assistance for activities conducted under such partnership agreement.
                        
                        .
                     
                  
               
               
                  214.
                  USE OF PARTNERSHIP INTERMEDIARIES TO PROMOTE DEFENSE RESEARCH AND EDUCATION
                  
                     (a)
                     In general
                     
                        Chapter 303 of title 10, United States Code, is amended by adding at the end the following new section:
                     
                        
                           4128.
                           USE OF PARTNERSHIP INTERMEDIARIES TO PROMOTE DEFENSE RESEARCH AND EDUCATION.
                           
                              (a)
                              In general
                              Subject to the approval of the Secretary of Defense or the head of another department or agency of the Federal Government concerned, the head of a Federal laboratory or research center may—
                              
                                 (1)
                                 enter into a contract, memorandum of understanding, or other transaction with a partnership intermediary that provides for the partnership intermediary to perform services for the Department of Defense that increase the likelihood of success in the conduct of cooperative or joint activities of the laboratory or center with industry or academic institutions; and
                              
                              
                                 (2)
                                 pay the Federal costs of such contract, memorandum or understanding, or other transaction out of funds made available for the support of the technology transfer function of the laboratory or center.
                              
                           
                           
                              (b)
                              Definitions
                              In this section:
                              
                                 (1)
                                 Term Federal laboratory or research center means—
                                 
                                    (A)
                                    a Federal laboratory; or
                                 
                                 
                                    (B)
                                    a federally funded research and development center that is not a laboratory.
                                 
                              
                              
                                 (2)
                                 The term laboratory has the meaning given that term in section 12(d)(2) the Stevenson-Wydler Technology Innovation Act of 1980 (15 U.S.C. 3710a(d)(2)).
                              
                              
                                 (3)
                                 The term partnership intermediary means an agency of a State or local government, or a nonprofit entity owned in whole or in part by, chartered by, funded in whole or in part by, or operated in whole or in part by or on behalf of a State or local government, that—
                                 
                                    (A)
                                    assists, counsels, advises, evaluates, or otherwise cooperates with industry or academic institutions that need or can make demonstrably productive use of technology-related assistance from a Federal laboratory or research center;
                                 
                                 
                                    (B)
                                    facilitates technology transfer or transition from industry or academic institutions to a Federal laboratory or research center;
                                 
                                 
                                    (C)
                                    assists and facilitates workforce development in critical technology areas for prototyping or technology transition activities to fulfill unmet needs of a Federal laboratory or research center; or
                                 
                                 
                                    (D)
                                    facilitates improvements to intellectual property owned by the Federal laboratory or research center, such as improvements to the quality, value, flexibility, utility, or complexity of such intellectual property.
                                 
                              
                           
                        
                        .
                     
                  
                  
                     (b)
                     Conforming amendments
                     Section 4124 of title 10, United States Code, is amended—
                     
                        (1)
                        by striking subsection (f); and
                     
                     
                        (2)
                        by redesignating subsections (g) and (h) as subsections (f) and (g), respectively.
                     
                  
               
               
                  215.
                  MODIFICATION TO PERSONNEL MANAGEMENT AUTHORITY TO ATTRACT EXPERTS IN SCIENCE AND ENGINEERING
                  Section 4092 of title 10, United States Code, is amended—
                  
                     (1)
                     in subsection (a), by adding at the end the following new paragraph:
                     
                        
                           (11)
                           Office of Strategic Capital
                           The Director of the Office of Strategic Capital may carry out a program of personnel management authority provided in subsection (b) in order to facilitate recruitment of eminent experts in science or engineering for the Unit.
                        
                        ; and
                     
                  
                  
                     (2)
                     in subsection (b)—
                     
                        (A)
                        in paragraph (1)—
                        
                           (i)
                           in subparagraph (D), by striking 5 scientific and engineering positions in the Office and inserting 20 scientific and engineering positions in the Office, of which not more than 5 such positions may be positions of administration or management of the Office;
                        
                        
                           (ii)
                           in subparagraph (E) by striking 5 scientific and engineering positions in the Unit and inserting 35 scientific and engineering positions in the Unit, of which not more than 5 such positions may be positions of administration or management of the Unit’’; and
                        
                        
                           (iii)
                           in subparagraph (H), by striking 15 and inserting 25;
                        
                        
                           (iv)
                           in subparagraph (I), by striking and at the end;
                        
                        
                           (v)
                           in subparagraph (J), by adding and at the end; and
                        
                        
                           (vi)
                           by adding at the end the following new subparagraph:
                           
                              
                                 (K)
                                 in the case of the Office of Strategic Capital, appoint and rescind appointments of individuals to a total of not more than 30 positions in the Office;
                              
                              ; and
                           
                        
                     
                     
                        (B)
                        in paragraph (2), by amending subparagraph (A) to read as follows:
                        
                           
                              (A)
                              in the case of employees appointed pursuant to subparagraphs (B), (D), (E), (H), and (K) of paragraph (1), at a rate to be determined by the head of the organization concerned up to the amount of annual compensation specified in section 102 of title 3;
                           
                           .
                        
                     
                  
               
               
                  216.
                  MODIFICATION TO CONSORTIUM ON USE OF ADDITIVE MANUFACTURING FOR DEFENSE CAPABILITY DEVELOPMENT
                  Section 223(c) of the National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2024 (Public Law 118–31; 10 U.S.C. 4841 note) is amended—
                  
                     (1)
                     in paragraph (5), by striking and at the end;
                  
                  
                     (2)
                     in paragraph (6), by striking the period at the end and inserting ; and; and
                  
                  
                     (3)
                     by adding at the end the following new paragraph:
                     
                        
                           (7)
                           develop a rapidly deployable additive manufacturing system that is capable of fabricating replacement safety-critical parts for military aircraft and unmanned aerial vehicles in environments where access to traditionally manufactured replacement parts is severely restricted. 
                        
                        .
                     
                  
               
               
                  217.
                  MODIFICATION TO CONTINUOUS CAPABILITY DEVELOPMENT AND DELIVERY PROGRAM FOR F–35 AIRCRAFT
                  Section 225(b) of the National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2024 (Public Law 118–31; 137 Stat. 195) is amended—
                  
                     (1)
                     in paragraph (1), by striking designate two F–35A aircraft, two F–35B aircraft, and two F–35C aircraft and inserting designate a total of not fewer than nine F–35A, F–35B, or F–35C aircraft; and
                  
                  
                     (2)
                     in paragraph (2)(A), by striking Lot 19 and inserting Lot 18.
                  
               
               
                  218.
                  MODIFICATION OF CVN–73 TO SUPPORT FIELDING OF MQ–25 UNMANNED AERIAL VEHICLE
                  Section 219 of the John S. McCain National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2019 (Public Law 115–232; 132 Stat. 1680) is amended by striking shall and all that follows and inserting shall modify the compartments and infrastructure of the aircraft carrier designated CVN–73 to support the fielding of the MQ–25 unmanned aerial vehicle before the planned deployment date of such vehicle..
               
               
                  219.
                  AGILITY PRIME TRANSITION WORKING GROUP
                  
                     (a)
                     Establishment
                     Not later than 180 days after the date of the enactment of this Act, the Secretary of the Air Force, in coordination with the Under Secretary of Defense for Acquisition and Sustainment and the Under Secretary of Defense for Research and Engineering, shall establish a working group to be known as the Agility Prime Transition Working Group (referred to in this section as the Working Group).
                  
                  
                     (b)
                     Duties
                     The duties of the Working Group shall include the following:
                     
                        (1)
                        To develop and implement a strategy to transition capabilities developed under the Agility Prime program of the Air Force to program executive offices of the covered Armed Forces, as appropriate.
                     
                     
                        (2)
                        To provide a forum for members of the Working Group to coordinate activities relating to hybrid and electric vertical takeoff and landing capabilities developed under the Agility Prime program, including—
                        
                           (A)
                           research, development, testing, and evaluation activities;
                        
                        
                           (B)
                           demonstration activities; and
                        
                        
                           (C)
                           activities to transition such capabilities from the research and development phase into operational use within the covered Armed Forces, as appropriate.
                        
                     
                     
                        (3)
                         To identify programs, projects, activities, and requirements of the covered Armed Forces that may be supported by technologies and capabilities developed under the Agility Prime program, including hybrid and electric vertical takeoff and landing aircraft, advanced air mobility platforms, autonomous flight capabilities, test and evaluation software, and related technologies.
                     
                     
                        (4)
                        To identify requirements of the combatant commands and the covered Armed Forces relating to distributed and contested logistics, mobility and sustainment, intelligence, surveillance, and reconnaissance, strike, and other operational use cases that align with previous, ongoing, or planned efforts under the Agility Prime program.
                     
                     
                        (5)
                        To assess whether previous, ongoing, or planned efforts under the Agility Prime program and other vertical take off and landing aircraft capability development efforts align with other current, planned, or future acquisition programs of the covered Armed Forces.
                     
                     
                        (6)
                        Identify any changes to doctrine, organization, training, materiel, leadership, personnel, facilities, and policy (commonly known as DOTMLPF–P) required to successfully integrate hybrid and electric vertical takeoff and landing aircraft platforms into future force design.
                     
                     
                        (7)
                        To assess how the authorities and resources of the Department of Defense may be used to support the advanced air mobility and hybrid and electric vertical takeoff and landing aircraft industries, including support in the form of loans, loan guarantees, private investment matching programs, and other financial mechanisms.
                     
                     
                        (8)
                        To assist the Secretary of the Air Force in preparing the briefing and reports required under subsection (g). 
                     
                  
                  
                     (c)
                     Membership
                     The Working Group shall be composed of the following members or their designees:
                     
                        (1)
                        The Secretary of the Air Force.
                     
                     
                        (2)
                        Each Secretary of a military department. 
                     
                     
                        (3)
                        The Chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff.
                     
                     
                        (4)
                        The Under Secretary of Defense for Acquisition and Sustainment.
                     
                     
                        (5)
                        The Under Secretary of Defense for Research and Engineering.
                     
                     
                        (6)
                        The Director of the Defense Innovation Unit.
                     
                     
                        (7)
                        The Director of the Office of Strategic Capital.
                     
                     
                        (8)
                        A representative from the United States Special Operations Command.
                     
                     
                        (9)
                        A representative from the United States Transportation Command.
                     
                     
                        (10)
                        Representatives of such other organizations and elements of the Department of Defense as the Chairperson of the Working Group determines appropriate.
                     
                  
                  
                     (d)
                     Chairperson
                     The Secretary of the Air Force, or the designee of the Secretary, shall serve as the Chairperson of the Working Group.
                  
                  
                     (e)
                     Meetings
                     The Working Group shall meet not less frequently than twice each year at the call of the Chairperson.
                  
                  
                     (f)
                     Termination
                     The working group shall terminate on September 30, 2027.
                  
                  
                     (g)
                     Briefings and reports
                     
                        (1)
                        Initial briefing
                        Not later than 180 days after the date of the enactment of this Act, the Secretary of the Air Force shall provide to the congressional defense committees a briefing on the status of the Working Group, which shall include information on the organization, activities, plans, actions, and milestones of the Working Group as of the date of the briefing.
                     
                     
                        (2)
                        Annual report
                        Not later than September 30, 2025, and not later than September 30 of each year thereafter through 2027, the Secretary of the Air Force shall submit to the congressional defense committees a report on the efforts of the Working Group. Each report shall include, with respect to the year covered by the report, information on—
                        
                           (A)
                           any funding under the categories of research, development, test, and evaluation, procurement, or operation and maintenance that is expected to be used for further development or procurement of hybrid and electric vertical takeoff and landing capabilities in the fiscal year of the report and the in the following fiscal year;
                        
                        
                           (B)
                           any planned transitions of hybrid and electric vertical takeoff and landing technologies to—
                           
                              (i)
                              acqusition programs of the covered Armed Forces; or
                           
                           
                              (ii)
                              research, development, test, and evaluation programs of the covered Armed Forces.
                           
                        
                        
                           (C)
                           any actions taken by the Working Group;
                        
                        
                           (D)
                           any milestones achieved by the Working Group; and
                        
                        
                           (E)
                           such other matters as the Secretary determines appropriate.
                        
                     
                  
                  
                     (h)
                     Definitions
                     In this section:
                     
                        (1)
                        The term Agility Prime program means the program of the Air Force under which the Air Force is developing hybrid and electric vertical takeoff and landing capabilities in collaboration with partners in commercial industry and other sectors.
                     
                     
                        (2)
                        The term covered Armed Forces means the Army, Navy, Air Force, Marine Corps, and Space Force.
                     
                  
               
               
                  220.
                  MEASURES TO ADVANCE QUANTUM INFORMATION SCIENCE WITHIN THE DEPARTMENT OF DEFENSE
                  
                     (a)
                     Strategic plan
                     
                        (1)
                        In general
                        The Secretary of Defense shall develop a strategic plan to guide the research, development, test, and evaluation, procurement, and implementation of quantum information science (referred to in this section as QIS) technologies within the Department of Defense, including the covered Armed Forces, over the period of five years following the date of the enactment of this Act.
                     
                     
                        (2)
                        Elements
                        The plan required under paragraph (1) shall include the following:
                        
                           (A)
                           Identification of—
                           
                              (i)
                              QIS technologies that have the potential to solve operational challenges faced by the Department of Defense; and
                           
                           
                              (ii)
                              the technology readiness levels of those QIS technologies.
                           
                        
                        
                           (B)
                           Plans to transition technologies identified under subparagraph (A) from the research, development, and prototyping phases into operational use within the Department.
                        
                        
                           (C)
                           Plans for allocating the resources of the Department to ensure such resources are focused on QIS technologies with the potential to solve operational challenges as identified under subparagraph (A).
                        
                        
                           (D)
                           Plans for the continuous evaluation, development, and implementation of QIS technology solutions within the Department.
                        
                        
                           (E)
                           Plans for the development, review, performance evaluation, and adoption of a fault-tolerant, utility-scale quantum computer and the transition of that capability to appropriate organizations and elements of the Department of Defense and such other departments and agencies of the Federal Government as the Secretary determines appropriate.
                        
                     
                     
                        (3)
                        Report
                        Not later than one year after the date of the enactment of this Act, the Secretary of Defense shall submit to the congressional defense committees a report that includes—
                        
                           (A)
                           the strategic plan developed under paragraph (1); and
                        
                        
                           (B)
                           an assessment of whether the budgets proposed for QIS-related activities of the Department of Defense and each of the covered Armed Forces appropriately balance the use of research, development, test, and evaluation funds designated as budget activity 1 (basic research), budget activity 2 (applied research), and budget activity 3 (advanced technology development) (as those budget activity classifications are set forth in volume 2B, chapter 5 of the Department of Defense Financial Management Regulation (DOD 7000.14–R)) to achieve the objectives of the strategic plan over near-, mid-, and long-term timeframes.
                        
                     
                  
                  
                     (b)
                     Quantum Computing Center of Excellence
                     
                        (1)
                        In general
                        The Secretary of Defense shall establish a Quantum Computing Center of Excellence (referred to in this subsection as the Center) at a research laboratory of a covered Armed Force with requisite experience in quantum computing, integrated photonics and photon qubits, superconducting and hybrid systems, and trapped ions.
                     
                     
                        (2)
                        Activities
                        The Center shall carry out the following activities:
                        
                           (A)
                           Accelerate the transition of advanced quantum and quantum hybrid computing technology from the research and development phase into operational use.
                        
                        
                           (B)
                           Facilitate quantum computing workforce development.
                        
                        
                           (C)
                           Conduct outreach to enhance government, industry, and academia’s understanding of—
                           
                              (i)
                              national security-related use cases for quantum computing and quantum hybrid technology; and
                           
                           
                              (ii)
                              operational challenges faced by the Department of Defense that may be addressed using such technology.
                           
                        
                        
                           (D)
                           Conduct prototyping of quantum computing and quantum hybrid applications.
                        
                        
                           (E)
                           Undertake efforts to advance the technology readiness levels of quantum computing technologies.
                        
                        
                           (F)
                           Carry out such other activities relating to quantum computing as the Secretary determines appropriate.
                        
                     
                     
                        (3)
                        Partner organizations
                        For purposes of carrying out the activities of the Center under this subsection, the research laboratory selected under paragraph (1) may partner with one or more of the following:
                        
                           (A)
                           Other research laboratories of the covered Armed Forces.
                        
                        
                           (B)
                           The Defense Innovation Unit.
                        
                        
                           (C)
                           Federally funded research and development centers.
                        
                        
                           (D)
                           University affiliated research centers.
                        
                        
                           (E)
                           Private sector entities with expertise in quantum computing.
                        
                        
                           (F)
                           Such other organizations as the Secretary of Defense determines appropriate.
                        
                     
                     
                        (4)
                        Contract Authority
                        Subject to availability of appropriations, Secretary of Defense may make grants and enter into contracts or other agreements, on a competitive basis, to support the activities of the Center.
                     
                     
                        (5)
                        Termination
                        The Center shall terminate on the date that is 10 years after the date of the enactment of this Act.
                     
                  
                  
                     (c)
                     Definitions
                     In this section:
                     
                        (1)
                        The term covered Armed Force means the Army, Navy, Air Force, Marine Corps, or Space Force.
                     
                     
                        (2)
                        The term quantum computing means computing algorithms and applications that use quantum mechanics through quantum processing units, including—
                        
                           (A)
                           quantum-classical hybrid applications which are applications that use both quantum computing and classical computing hardware systems;
                        
                        
                           (B)
                           annealing and gate systems; and
                        
                        
                           (C)
                           all qubit modalities (including superconducting, trapped-ion, neutral atom, and photonics).
                        
                     
                     
                        (3)
                        The term quantum information science means the use of the laws of quantum physics for the storage, transmission, manipulation, computing, or measurement of information. 
                     
                  
               
               
                  221.
                  AUTHORITY TO TEMPORARILY DETAIL EMPLOYEES OF THE OFFICE OF STRATEGIC CAPITAL TO CERTAIN PRIVATE-SECTOR ORGANIZATIONS
                  
                     (a)
                     Authorization
                     Using the authority provided under section 1599g of title 10, United States Code, the Secretary of Defense, acting through the Director of the Office of Strategic capital, may carry out a program under which the Director arranges for the temporary assignment of an employee of the Office to a qualifying private-sector organization.
                  
                  
                     (b)
                     Objectives
                     The objectives of the program under subsection (a) shall be—
                     
                        (1)
                        to enable the Office of Strategic Capital and other organizations and elements of the Department of Defense to rapidly acquire industry-specific context and technical competence across high priority technology and industrial focus areas through immersion in highly relevant emerging technology and business ecosystems across the United States; and
                     
                     
                        (2)
                        to enhance, among personnel of the Department—
                        
                           (A)
                           understanding of, connectivity with, and access to knowledge about critical and emerging defense industrial base capabilities; and
                        
                        
                           (B)
                           understanding of the strategic role that venture capital and private equity operations have in shaping future sustainment and modernization requirements for the defense industrial base.
                        
                     
                  
                  
                     (c)
                     Matching and tracking capabilities
                     In carrying out program under subsection (a), the Director of the Office of Strategic Capital shall—
                     
                        (1)
                        use an information technology system to optimize the identification, assessment, and placement of participants within the program, which shall include the use of such system to match private-sector organizations with employees of the Office participating in the program in a manner that aligns the priorities, needs, and expertise of such employees, organizations, and the Office; and
                     
                     
                        (2)
                        establish a database or other capability that—
                        
                           (A)
                           enables the Office to identify and track current and former participants in the program;
                        
                        
                           (B)
                           documents the nature of the experience such participants had while in the program; and
                        
                        
                           (C)
                           is suitable for further development and expansion to other organizations of Department of Defense in the event the Secretary of Defense determines such expansion is appropriate.
                        
                     
                  
                  
                     (d)
                     Qualifying private-sector organization defined
                     In this section, the term qualifying private-sector organization means a private-sector organization within the defense industrial base that has functions and expertise relevant to the responsibilities of the Office of Strategic Capital, which may include organization such as a venture capital firm, private equity firm, emerging technology company, or other such organizations as determined appropriated by the Director.
                  
               
               
                  222.
                  PILOT PROGRAM ON ESTABLISHMENT OF A TEST AND EVALUATION CELL WITHIN THE DEFENSE INNOVATION UNIT
                  
                     (a)
                     Pilot program
                     The Director of the Defense Innovation Unit shall carry out a pilot program under which the Director—
                     
                        (1)
                        develops an alternative testing and evaluation pathway to accelerate the testing and evaluation of technologies that have the potential to provide warfighting capabilities to the Department of Defense in the near-term and mid-term timeframes; and
                     
                     
                        (2)
                        establishes a cell of dedicated personnel within the Unit to manage and implement the alternative testing and evaluation pathway developed under paragraph (1).
                     
                  
                  
                     (b)
                     Activities
                     In carrying out the pilot program under subsection (a), the Director of the Defense Innovation Unit shall—
                     
                        (1)
                        conduct continuous and iterative test and evaluation of technologies that have the potential to provide warfighting capabilities to the Department of Defense in the near-term and mid-term timeframes, including—
                        
                           (A)
                           commercial dual use technologies;
                        
                        
                           (B)
                           technologies that are not integrated into an established program of record;
                        
                        
                           (C)
                           technologies that have not been fully fielded;
                        
                        
                           (D)
                           software-based technologies; and
                        
                        
                           (E)
                           such other technologies as the Director determines appropriate;
                        
                     
                     
                        (2)
                        use tools and technologies to emulate operationally relevant threat scenarios and conditions; and
                     
                     
                        (3)
                        integrate the development of concepts of operations and concepts of employment with testing and evaluation activities conducted under the program to ensure early alignment between capability development and future concepts of operations and concepts of employment.
                     
                  
                  
                     (c)
                     Consultation
                     The Director of the Defense Innovation Unit shall carry out the pilot program under subsection (a), in consultation with—
                     
                        (1)
                        service-level innovation organizations;
                     
                     
                        (2)
                        research laboratories of the Armed Forces;
                     
                     
                        (3)
                        the combatant commands;
                     
                     
                        (4)
                        the Joint Staff;
                     
                     
                        (5)
                        the Under Secretary of Defense for Acquisition and Sustainment;
                     
                     
                        (6)
                        the Under Secretary of Defense for Research and Engineering;
                     
                     
                        (7)
                        the Director of Operational Test and Evaluation;
                     
                     
                        (8)
                        the Director of the Test Resource Management Center;
                     
                     
                        (9)
                        industry partners; and
                     
                     
                        (10)
                        Federal, State, local, and international partners with test and evaluation infrastructure.
                     
                  
                  
                     (d)
                     Annual briefings
                     Not later than 180 days after the date of the enactment of this Act, and on an annual basis thereafter through the termination date specified in subsection (e), the Director of the Defense Innovation Unit shall provide to the Committees on Armed Services of the Senate and the House of Representatives a briefing on the status of the pilot program under subsection (a).
                  
                  
                     (e)
                     Termination
                     The pilot program under subsection (a) shall terminate on December 31, 2028.
                  
               
               
                  223.
                  DISMANTLEMENT OF CHINESE DRONE AIRCRAFT OF TO IDENTIFY THE ORIGIN OF COMPONENTS AND SECURITY VULNERABILITIES
                  
                     (a)
                     In general
                     Not later than 90 days after the date of the enactment of this Act, the Secretary of Defense, acting through the head of the Defense Technology Security Administration and in coordination with the Director of the Defense Innovation Unit, shall—
                     
                        (1)
                        fully disassemble a drone aircraft made by the Chinese technology company Da Jiang Innovations (DJI); and
                     
                     
                        (2)
                        determine the origin of each component of such drone aircraft.
                     
                  
                  
                     (b)
                     Report
                     After completing the actions required under subsection (a), the Secretary of Defense shall submit to the Committees on Armed Services of the Senate and the House of Representatives a report that includes—
                     
                        (1)
                        a list of each component found in the drone, including the origin of the component and manufacturer information;
                     
                     
                        (2)
                        a description of any security vulnerabilities that were identified in the course of disassembling the drone.
                     
                  
                  
                     (c)
                     Form
                     The report required under subsection (b) shall be submitted in unclassified form, but may include a classified annex.
                  
               
               
                  224.
                  PROGRAM ON LIMITED OBJECTIVE EXPERIMENTATION IN SUPPORT OF AIR FORCE OPERATIONS
                  
                     (a)
                     In general
                     The Commander of the Air Force Research Laboratory, acting through a partnership intermediary, shall establish a program—
                     
                        (1)
                        to carry out limited objective experiments in operationally relevant environments;
                     
                     
                        (2)
                        to develop persistent instrumentation and infrastructure for field experimentation and other innovation activities supporting the Air Force and joint service multi-domain mission set; and
                     
                     
                        (3)
                        to identify capabilities for the Air Force multi-domain operations enterprise that have the potential to generate life-cycle cost savings and provide data-driven approaches to resource allocation.
                     
                  
                  
                     (b)
                     Partnership intermediary defined
                     In this section, term partnership intermediary has the meaning given that term in section 23(c) of the Stevenson-Wydler Technology Innovation Act of 1980 (15 U.S.C. 3715(c)).
                  
               
               
                  225.
                  PROHIBITION ON CONTRACTS BETWEEN CERTAIN FOREIGN ENTITIES AND INSTITUTIONS OF HIGHER EDUCATION CONDUCTING DEPARTMENT OF DEFENSE-FUNDED RESEARCH
                  
                     (a)
                     In general
                     None of the funds authorized to be appropriated or otherwise made available for any fiscal year for the Department of Defense may be provided to a covered institution of higher education that fails to comply with the prohibition under subsection (b).
                  
                  
                     (b)
                     Prohibition
                     Beginning on January 1, 2026, a covered institution of higher education may not enter into a contract with a covered nation or a foreign entity of concern.
                  
                  
                     (c)
                     Waivers
                     
                        (1)
                        Submission
                        
                           (A)
                           First waiver requests
                           
                              (i)
                              In general
                              A covered institution of higher education that desires to enter into a contract with a foreign entity of concern or a covered nation may submit to the Secretary of Defense, not later than 120 days before the institution enters into such a contract, a request to waive the prohibition under subsection (b) with respect to such contract.
                           
                           
                              (ii)
                              Contents of waiver request
                              A waiver request submitted by a covered institution of higher education under clause (i) shall include—
                              
                                 (I)
                                 the complete and unredacted text of the proposed contract for which the waiver is being requested, and if such original contract is not in English, a translated copy of the text into English (in a manner that complies with subsection (f)); and
                              
                              
                                 (II)
                                 a statement that—
                                 
                                    (aa)
                                    is signed by the President or compliance officer of the institution designated in accordance with subsection (g); and
                                 
                                 
                                    (bb)
                                    includes information that demonstrates that such contract is for the benefit of the institution’s mission and students and will promote the security, stability, and economic vitality of the United States.
                                 
                              
                           
                        
                        
                           (B)
                           Renewal waiver requests
                           
                              (i)
                              In general
                              A covered institution of higher education that has entered into a contract pursuant to a waiver issued under this section, the term of which is longer than the 1-year waiver period and the terms and conditions of which remain the same as the proposed contract submitted as part of the request for such waiver, may submit, not later than 120 days before the expiration of such waiver period, a request for a renewal of such waiver for an additional 1-year period (which shall include any information requested by the Secretary).
                           
                           
                              (ii)
                              Termination
                              If a covered institution of higher education fails to submit a request under clause (i) or is not granted a renewal under such clause, such institution shall terminate such contract on the last day of the original 1-year waiver period.
                           
                        
                     
                     
                        (2)
                        Waiver issuance
                        The Secretary of Defense—
                        
                           (A)
                           not later than 60 days before a covered institution of higher education enters into a contract pursuant to a waiver request under paragraph (1)(A), or before a contract described in paragraph (1)(B)(i) is renewed pursuant to a renewal request under such paragraph, shall notify the institution—
                           
                              (i)
                              if the waiver or renewal will be issued by the Secretary; and
                           
                           
                              (ii)
                              in a case in which the waiver or renewal will be issued, the date on which the 1-year waiver period starts; and
                           
                        
                        
                           (B)
                           may only issue a waiver under this section to an institution if the Secretary of Defense determines, in consultation with the Secretary of Education, that the contract for which the waiver is being requested is for the benefit of the institution’s mission and students and will promote the security, stability, and economic vitality of the United States.
                        
                     
                     
                        (3)
                        Notification to Congress
                        Not later than 2 weeks prior to issuing a waiver under paragraph (2), the Secretary of Defense shall submit to the Committees on Armed Services of the Senate and the House of Representatives written notice of the intent of the Secretary to issue such waiver together with a justification for such waiver.
                     
                     
                        (4)
                        Application of waivers
                        A waiver issued under this section to a covered institution of higher education with respect to a contract shall only—
                        
                           (A)
                           waive the prohibition under subsection (b) for a 1-year period; and
                        
                        
                           (B)
                           apply to the terms and conditions of the proposed contract submitted as part of the request for such waiver.
                        
                     
                  
                  
                     (d)
                     Contracts prior to date of enactment
                     
                        (1)
                        In general
                        In the case of a covered institution of higher education that entered into contract with a covered nation or foreign entity of concern prior to January 1, 2026, and which contract remains in effect on such date—
                        
                           (A)
                           the institution shall, not later than 120 days before such date, submit to the Secretary a waiver request in accordance with subsection (c)(1)(A)(ii); and
                        
                        
                           (B)
                           the Secretary shall, upon receipt of the request submitted under subparagraph (A), immediately issue a waiver to the institution for a period beginning on the date on which the waiver is issued and ending on the sooner of—
                           
                              (i)
                              January 1, 2027; or
                           
                           
                              (ii)
                              the date on which the contract terminates.
                           
                        
                     
                     
                        (2)
                        Renewal
                        A covered institution of higher education that has entered into a contract described in paragraph (1), the term of which is longer than the waiver period described in subparagraph (B) of such paragraph and the terms and conditions of which remain the same as the contract submitted as part of the request required under subparagraph (A) of such paragraph, may submit a request for renewal of the waiver issued under such paragraph in accordance with subsection (c)(1)(B).
                     
                  
                  
                     (e)
                     Designation during contract term
                     In the case of a covered institution of higher education that enters into a contract with a foreign source that is not a covered nation or a foreign entity of concern but which, during the term of such contract, is designated as a covered nation or foreign entity of concern, such institution shall terminate such contract not later than 60 days after the Secretary notifies the institution of such designation.
                  
                  
                     (f)
                     Translation requirement
                     Any information required to be disclosed under this section with respect to a contract that is not in English shall be translated, for purposes of such disclosure, by a person that is not an affiliated entity or agent of the covered nation or foreign entity of concern involved with such contract.
                  
                  
                     (g)
                     Compliance officer
                     Each covered institution of higher education applying for a waiver under subsection (c) or (d), shall identify a compliance officer, who shall—
                     
                        (1)
                        be a current employee or legally authorized agent of such institution; and
                     
                     
                        (2)
                        be responsible, on behalf of such institution, for personally certifying—
                        
                           (A)
                           compliance with the prohibition under this section; and
                        
                        
                           (B)
                           the truth and accuracy of any information contained in such a waiver request.
                        
                     
                  
                  
                     (h)
                     Public database
                     Not later than 90 days after issuing a waiver under subsection (c) or (d), the Secretary of Defense shall publish a copy of the order granting the waiver and the contents of the waiver request on a publicly available website of the Department of Defense. Such information shall be made available on such website in the form of a searchable database that includes links to the text of all contracts to which the waiver pertains.
                  
                  
                     (i)
                     Annual reports
                     Not later than June 1, 2026, and on an annual basis thereafter, the Secretary of Defense shall submit to the Committees on Armed Services of the Senate and the House of Representatives a report that includes a description of—
                     
                        (1)
                        the terms and contents of any waivers issued under this section in the period covered by the report;
                     
                     
                        (2)
                        any trends in—
                        
                           (A)
                           the number of waivers issued under this section over time; and
                        
                        
                           (B)
                           the types of contracts to which such waivers pertain; and
                        
                     
                     
                        (3)
                        the processes used by the Secretary to verify that covered institutions of higher education are in compliance with the requirements of this section.
                     
                  
                  
                     (j)
                     Definitions
                     In this section:
                     
                        (1)
                        The term contract means—
                        
                           (A)
                           any agreement or memorandum of understanding for the acquisition, by purchase, lease, or barter, of property or services by or from a covered nation or foreign entity of concern; or
                        
                        
                           (B)
                           any affiliation, agreement, or similar transaction with a covered nation or foreign entity of concern that involves the use or exchange of the name, likeness, time, services, or resources of a covered institution of higher education.
                        
                     
                     
                        (2)
                        The term covered institution of higher education means an institution of higher education that conducts research funded by the Department of Defense.
                     
                     
                        (3)
                        The term foreign entity of concern has the meaning given that term in section 10612(a) of the Research and Development, Competition, and Innovation Act (42 U.S.C. 19221(a)) and includes a foreign entity that is identified on the list published under section 1286(c)(9)(A) of the John S. McCain National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2019 (Public Law 115–232; 10 U.S.C. 4001 note).
                     
                     
                        (4)
                        The term covered nation has the meaning given that term in section 4872(d) of title 10, United States Code.
                     
                     
                        (5)
                        The term institution of higher education has the meaning given that term in section 102 of the Higher Education Act of 1965 (20 U.S.C. 1002).
                     
                  
               
               
                  226.
                  LIMITATION ON AVAILABILITY OF FUNDS FOR FUNDAMENTAL RESEARCH COLLABORATION WITH CERTAIN INSTITUTIONS
                  
                     (a)
                     Limitation
                     Except as provided in subsection (b), none of the funds authorized to be appropriated by this Act or otherwise made available for any fiscal year for the Department of Defense may be provided to an institution of higher education for any principal investigator who conducts fundamental research in collaboration directly or indirectly with a covered nation or foreign entity of concern.
                  
                  
                     (b)
                     Waiver
                     The Secretary of Defense may waive the limitation under subsection (a), on a case-by-case basis, with respect to a principal investigator at an institution of higher education, if the Secretary of Defense determines that such a waiver is in the national security interests of the United States.
                  
                  
                     (c)
                     Certifications of compliance
                     
                        (1)
                        Funding certification
                        As a condition of receiving funds from the Department of Defense, an institution of higher education shall certify to the Secretary of Defense that the principal investigator of the project of the institution that is applying for funding from the Department of Defense—
                        
                           (A)
                           is not conducting fundamental research in collaboration with an entity described in subsection (a) as of the date of the certification; and
                        
                        
                           (B)
                           will not conduct fundamental research in collaboration with such an entity during the period for which such funding is received.
                        
                     
                     
                        (2)
                        Contract certification
                        As a condition of maintaining a contract with the Department of Defense, an institution of higher education shall—
                        
                           (A)
                           using publicly available information, perform due diligence on any academic institution or laboratory the institution is collaborating with, or intends to collaborate with, under the contract; and
                        
                        
                           (B)
                           certify to the Secretary of Defense that the principal investigator of the project of the institution to which the contract pertains—
                           
                              (i)
                              has not conducted fundamental research in collaboration with an entity described in subsection (a) at any time during the period in which such contract was in effect, up to and including the date of the certification; and
                           
                           
                              (ii)
                              will not conduct fundamental research in collaboration with such an entity during any period in which such contract is in effect.
                           
                        
                     
                     
                        (3)
                        Frequency
                        An institution of higher education shall—
                        
                           (A)
                           submit the certification under paragraph (1) on an annual basis during each year in which the institution receives funds from the Department of Defense; and
                        
                        
                           (B)
                           submit the certification under paragraph (2) on an annual basis during each year in which a contract is in effect between the institution and the Department.
                        
                     
                  
                  
                     (d)
                     Report
                     
                        (1)
                        In general
                        On an annual basis, the Secretary of Defense shall submit to the appropriate congressional committees a report on the compliance of the Department of Defense and institutions of higher education with the requirements of this section. Each report shall include, for each waiver issued under subsection (b) in the period covered by the report—
                        
                           (A)
                           a justification for the waiver; and
                        
                        
                           (B)
                           a detailed description of the type and extent of any collaboration between an institution of higher education and an entity described in subsection (a) allowed pursuant to the waiver, including identification of the institution and entities involved, the type of technology involved, the duration of the collaboration and terms and conditions on intellectual property assignment, as applicable, under the collaboration agreement.
                        
                     
                     
                        (2)
                        Form; public availability
                        Each report under paragraph (1) shall be submitted in unclassified form and shall be made available on a publicly accessible website of the Department of Defense.
                     
                  
                  
                     (e)
                     Effective date
                     The limitation under subsection (a) shall apply with respect to the first fiscal year that begins after the date that is one year after the date of the enactment of this Act and to any subsequent fiscal year.
                  
                  
                     (f)
                     Definitions
                     In this section:
                     
                        (1)
                        The term foreign entity of concern has the meaning given that term in section 10612(a) of the Research and Development, Competition, and Innovation Act (42 U.S.C. 19221(a)) and includes a foreign entity that is identified on the list published under section 1286(c)(9)(A) of the John S. McCain National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2019 (Public Law 115–232; 10 U.S.C. 4001 note).
                     
                     
                        (2)
                        The term institution of higher education has the meaning given that term in section 102 of the Higher Education Act of 1965 (20 U.S.C. 1002) and includes—
                        
                           (A)
                           any department, program, project, faculty, researcher, or other individual, entity, or activity of such institution; and
                        
                        
                           (B)
                           any branch of such institution within or outside the United States.
                        
                     
                     
                        (3)
                        The term fundamental research means basic and applied research in science and engineering, the results of which are expected to be published and shared broadly within the scientific community. Such term does not include research that is proprietary or classified and subject to access restrictions under other provisions of Federal law.
                     
                     
                        (4)
                        The term collaboration means any level of coordinated activity between an institution of higher education and an entity described in subsection (a), whether direct or indirect, formal or informal, and includes—
                        
                           (A)
                           sharing of research facilities, resources, or data;
                        
                        
                           (B)
                           transfer, sharing, or dissemination of technology, information, or any technical know-how;
                        
                        
                           (C)
                           any financial or in-kind contribution intended to produce a research product;
                        
                        
                           (D)
                           sponsorship or facilitation of research fellowships, visas, or residence permits;
                        
                        
                           (E)
                           joint ventures, partnerships, or other formalized agreements for the purpose of conducting research or sharing resources, data, or technology;
                        
                        
                           (F)
                           inclusion of researchers as consultants, advisors, or members of advisory or review boards; and
                        
                        
                           (G)
                           such other activities as may be determined by the Secretary of Defense in consultation with the Secretary of State and Director of National Intelligence.
                        
                     
                     
                        (5)
                        The term appropriate congressional committees means—
                        
                           (A)
                           the Committee on Armed Services and the Committee on Science, Space, and Technology of the House of Representatives; and
                        
                        
                           (B)
                           the Committee on Armed Services of the Senate and the Committee on Commerce, Science, and Transportation of the Senate.
                        
                     
                     
                        (6)
                        The term covered nation has the meaning given that term in section 4872(d) of title 10, United States Code.
                     
                  
               
               
                  227.
                  DISCLOSURE REQUIREMENTS FOR PERSONS PERFORMING RESEARCH OR DEVELOPMENT PROJECTS FOR THE DEPARTMENT OF DEFENSE
                  
                     (a)
                     Research and development projects
                     Section 4001 of title 10, United States Code, is amended by adding at the end the following new subsection:
                     
                        
                           (e)
                           Disclosure requirements
                           Whenever issuing a statement, press release, request for proposals, bid solicitation, or other document describing a project or program that is funded in whole or in part with Federal funding, a person performing a research or development project under paragraph (1) or (5) of subsection (b) shall clearly state the following:
                           
                              (1)
                              The percentage of the total costs of the program or project financed with Federal funding.
                           
                           
                              (2)
                              The dollar amount of Federal funds obligated for the project or program.
                           
                           
                              (3)
                              The percentage and dollar amount of the total costs of the project or program that will be financed from nongovernmental sources.
                           
                        
                        .
                     
                  
                  
                     (b)
                     Cooperative research and development agreements under Stevenson-Wydler Technology Innovation Act of 1980
                     Section 4026 of such title is amended—
                     
                        (1)
                        by striking The Secretary of Defense and inserting the following:
                        
                           
                              (a)
                              Authority
                              The Secretary of Defense
                           
                           ;
                        
                     
                     
                        (2)
                        in subsection (a), as designated by paragraph (1), in the second sentence, by striking Technology may and inserting the following:
                        
                           
                              (b)
                              Technology transfer
                              Technology may
                           
                           ; and
                        
                     
                     
                        (3)
                        by adding at the end the following new subsection:
                        
                           
                              (c)
                              Disclosure requirements
                              Whenever issuing a statement, press release, request for proposals, bid solicitation, or other document describing a project or program that is funded in whole or in part with Federal funding, a person performing a research or development project pursuant to a cooperative research and development agreement entered into under subsection (a) shall clearly state the following:
                              
                                 (1)
                                 The percentage of the total costs of the program or project financed with Federal funding.
                              
                              
                                 (2)
                                 The dollar amount of Federal funds obligated for the project or program.
                              
                              
                                 (3)
                                 The percentage and dollar amount of the total costs of the project or program that will be financed from nongovernmental sources.
                              
                           
                           .
                        
                     
                  
                  
                     (c)
                     Sense of Congress
                     It is the sense of Congress that the Secretary of Defense should direct the operating divisions of the Department of Defense to design and implement processes to manage and administer grantees’ compliance with the requirements added by this section, including determining to what extent to provide guidance to grantees on calculations. 
                  
               
               
                  228.
                  MODIFICATION TO INNOVATORS INFORMATION REPOSITORY IN THE DEPARTMENT OF DEFENSE
                  Section 220 of the John S. McCain National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2019 (Public Law 115–232; 10 U.S.C. 2364 note) is amended—
                  
                     (1)
                     in subsection (a), by inserting Chief Digital and Artificial Intelligence Office, Defense Innovation Unit, and before Defense Technical Information Center;
                  
                  
                     (2)
                     in subsection (b), by inserting in accordance with subsection (e) before the period at the end; 
                  
                  
                     (3)
                      in subsection (c)—
                     
                        (A)
                        by amending paragraph (1) to read as follows:
                        
                           
                              (1)
                              be coordinated across the Department of Defense enterprise to focus on small business innovators that are small, independent United States businesses, including—
                              
                                 (A)
                                 those participating in the Small Business Innovation Research program or the Small Business Technology Transfer program;
                              
                              
                                 (B)
                                 those participating in the Pilot Program to Accelerate the Procurement and Fielding of Innovative Technologies and the Rapid Defense Enterprise Research program; and
                              
                              
                                 (C)
                                 nontraditional defense companies that are working with research, innovation, and advanced project entities;
                              
                           
                           ; and
                        
                     
                     
                        (B)
                        in paragraph (2)—
                        
                           (i)
                           in subparagraph (C), by striking and at the end;
                        
                        
                           (ii)
                           in subparagraph (D), by striking and at the end; and
                        
                        
                           (iii)
                           by adding at the end the following new subparagraphs:
                           
                              
                                 (E)
                                 the date of the initial award to the participant from the Department of Defense; and
                              
                              
                                 (F)
                                 the dates of any additional awards made to the participant, including the dates of any contracts or other agreements entered into between the participant the Department of Defense; and
                              
                              ; and
                           
                        
                     
                  
                  
                     (4)
                     by adding at the end the following new subsection:
                     
                        
                           (e)
                           Updates required
                           
                              (1)
                              In general
                              Not less frequently than once each fiscal quarter, the head of the Defense Technical Information Center, in coordination with the Under Secretary of Defense for Research and Engineering, shall update the innovators information repository established under this section.
                           
                           
                              (2)
                              Notice to Congress
                              Not later than 30 days after making an update to the innovators information repository under paragraph (1), the head of the Defense Technical Information Center shall submit to the congressional defense committees notice of such update together with instructions for electronically accessing the updated repository.
                           
                        
                        .
                     
                  
               
               
                  229.
                  PROHIBITION ON AVAILABILITY OF FUNDS FOR CANINE AND FELINE RESEARCH
                  
                     (a)
                     Prohibition
                     None of the funds authorized to be appropriated by this Act or otherwise made available for the Department of Defense may be obligated or expended to conduct biomedical research or testing using canines or felines.
                  
                  
                     (b)
                     Waiver
                     The Secretary of Defense may waive the prohibition under subsection (a) if the Secretary—
                     
                        (1)
                        determines that the waiver is in the national security interest of the United States; and
                     
                     
                        (2)
                        not later than the date on which the waiver is invoked, submits a notification of the waiver and a justification of the reason for seeking the waiver to the Committees on Armed Services of the Senate and the House of Representatives.
                     
                  
               
               
                  230.
                  EXPANSION OF PARTICIPATION IN THE DIGITAL ON-DEMAND PROGRAM
                  
                     (a)
                     In general
                     The Secretary of Defense shall take such steps as may be necessary—
                     
                        (1)
                        to expand participation in the Digital On-Demand Program to—
                        
                           (A)
                           all organizations and elements of the Department of Defense; and
                        
                        
                           (B)
                           all members of the Armed Forces and civilian employees of the Department; and
                        
                     
                     
                        (2)
                        to actively promote the Program throughout the Department. 
                     
                  
                  
                     (b)
                     Report
                     Not later than 180 days after the date of the enactment of this Act, and on an annual basis thereafter through 2029, the Secretary of Defense shall submit to the Committees on Armed Services of the Senate and the House of Representatives a report on the progress of the Secretary in expanding and promoting the Digital On-Demand Program as described in subsection (a).
                  
                  
                     (c)
                     Digital on Demand Program defined
                     In this section, the term Digital On-Demand Program means the program overseen by the Chief Digital and Artificial Intelligence Officer pursuant to which educational resources on artificial intelligence, emerging technologies, data literacy, and related topics are made available to personnel of the Department of Defense through a digital platform on an on-demand basis.
                  
               
            
            
               C
               Plans, Reports, and Other Matters
               
                  241.
                  PLAN FOR ESTABLISHMENT OF SECURE COMPUTING AND DATA STORAGE ENVIRONMENT FOR TESTING OF ARTIFICIAL INTELLIGENCE TRAINED ON BIOLOGICAL DATA
                  
                     (a)
                     Plan required
                     The Under Secretary of Defense for Research and Engineering, in coordination with the Chief Digital and Artificial Intelligence Officer, shall develop a plan for the establishment of a secure computing and data storage environment to facilitate—
                     
                        (1)
                        the testing of artificial intelligence models trained on biological data; and
                     
                     
                        (2)
                        the development and testing of products generated by such models.
                     
                  
                  
                     (b)
                     Elements
                     The plan under subsection (a) shall provide as follows:
                     
                        (1)
                        Designation
                        The secure computing and data storage environment described in subsection (a) shall be known as the AIxBio sandbox.
                     
                     
                        (2)
                        Computing and data storage infrastructure
                        The AIxBio sandbox shall consist of a secure computing and data storage infrastructure to be used for the testing and development activities described in subsection (a). To the extent feasible, such infrastructure shall be assembled from the existing computing and data storage infrastructure organizations and elements of the Department of Defense with relevant capabilities, such as the Test Resource Management Center and the AI Accelerator of the Department of the Air Force.
                     
                     
                        (3)
                        Responsible official
                        The Under Secretary of Defense for Research and Engineering shall be responsible for—
                        
                           (A)
                           managing and overseeing the activities of the sandbox;
                        
                        
                           (B)
                           coordinating the efforts of the organizations of the Department involved in the activities of the sandbox;
                        
                        
                           (C)
                           selecting projects for development and testing using the sandbox in accordance with paragraph (4); and
                        
                        
                           (D)
                           arranging partnerships in accordance paragraph (5).
                        
                     
                     
                        (4)
                        Selection of projects
                        The Under Secretary of Defense for Research and Engineering shall—
                        
                           (A)
                           identify projects funded, in whole or in part, by the Department of Defense that—
                           
                              (i)
                              have demonstrated a proof-of-concept or another similar indicator of early success or feasibility; and
                           
                           
                              (ii)
                              involve the development of a model, technology, or product at the intersection of artificial intelligence and biotechnology that has potential defense applications, such as a project using artificial intelligence and biological data—
                              
                                 (I)
                                 to direct and produce medical countermeasures;
                              
                              
                                 (II)
                                 to predict and produce new or enhanced biological materials for military purposes; or
                              
                              
                                 (III)
                                 to analyze how biology could fulfill different components of the supply chain, including by improving the domestic supply chain through the use of biomanufacturing; and
                              
                           
                        
                        
                           (B)
                           from projects identified under subparagraph (A), select projects for further development and testing using the AIxBio sandbox.
                        
                     
                     
                        (5)
                        Partnerships
                        
                           (A)
                           In general
                           The Under Secretary of Defense for Research and Engineering shall establish mechanisms through which organizations and entities involved in projects of the AIxBio sandbox may work with Department of Defense laboratories and Department-funded laboratories of academic institutions to carry out activities in support of such projects, including biological testing and experimentation and testing and experimentation to validate artificial intelligence models in development.
                        
                        
                           (B)
                           Streamlined processes
                           In carrying out subparagraph (A), the Under Secretary shall establish streamlined processes to facilitate efficient collaboration between laboratories, organizations of the Department of Defense, and private entities for purposes of developing products for national security purposes and carrying out activities in support of projects under AIxBio sandbox, including testing and experimentation.
                        
                     
                     
                        (6)
                        Other elements
                        The plan shall address—
                        
                           (A)
                           the manner in which existing computing and data storage infrastructure of the Department of Defense shall be made available for the AIxBio sandbox in accordance with paragraph (2);
                        
                        
                           (B)
                           the development of any mechanisms needed to facilitate collaboration among individuals and organizations involved in projects under the AIxBio sandbox, including any necessary agreements concerning intellectual property, funding, and the transfer of materials or other resources;
                        
                        
                           (C)
                           the process for selecting projects for development and testing using the sandbox in accordance with paragraph (4); and
                        
                        
                           (D)
                           the process for determining the amount of funding needed for projects under the sandbox, including the length of time each project is expected to receive such funding.
                        
                     
                  
                  
                     (c)
                     Report and briefing
                     Not later than one year after the date of the enactment of this Act, the Under Secretary of Defense for Research and Engineering shall—
                     
                        (1)
                        submit to the Committees on Armed Services of the Senate and the House of Representatives a report that includes the plan developed under subsection (a); and
                     
                     
                        (2)
                        provide to the Committees a briefing on the plan.
                     
                  
               
               
                  242.
                  STUDY AND REPORT ON FOREIGN CAPITAL DISCLOSURE REQUIREMENTS OF CERTAIN DEPARTMENT OF DEFENSE ORGANIZATIONS
                  
                     (a)
                     Study required
                     Not later than 60 days after the date of the enactment of this Act, the Secretary of Defense shall seek to enter into a contract or other agreement with a federally funded research and development center to conduct an independent study on the foreign capital disclosure requirements of organizations of the Department of Defense that routinely engage with commercial entities backed by private equity or venture capital funds.
                  
                  
                     (b)
                     Elements
                     The study under subsection (a) shall include the following:
                     
                        (1)
                        A comparative analysis of current foreign capital disclosure requirements used by organizations within the Department of Defense that engage with commercial entities backed by private equity or venture capital funds, including the Defense Innovation Unit, National Security Innovation Capital, and other such organizations within the Department.
                     
                     
                        (2)
                        An assessment of any business intelligence, due diligence information, classified information, and other information sources available to such organizations to assist the organizations in formulating and executing foreign capital disclosure requirements.
                     
                     
                        (3)
                        An assessment of the extent to which such foreign capital disclosure requirements are shared with commercial entities.
                     
                     
                        (4)
                        An assessment of best practices for foreign capital disclosure requirements across the Department of Defense, including best practices for flexibly implementing such requirements based upon real or perceived risks.
                     
                     
                        (5)
                        An assessment of the feasibility of harmonizing the best practices as described in paragraph (4) across the Department of Defense in a responsive manner.
                     
                     
                        (6)
                        An analysis of foreign capital disclosure requirements that are used elsewhere within the Federal Government and in the Governments of international allies and partners of the United States.
                     
                     
                        (7)
                        An assessment of such other factors as may be relevant to inform the implementation of coordinated, effective foreign capital disclosure requirements across the Department of Defense and the Governments of international allies and partners of the United States.
                     
                  
                  
                     (c)
                     Report
                     
                        (1)
                        In general
                        Not later than 270 days after the date of the enactment of this Act, the Secretary of Defense shall submit to the congressional defense committees a report on the results of the study conducted under subsection (a).
                     
                     
                        (2)
                        Form of report
                        The report required under paragraph (1) shall be submitted in unclassified form, but may include a classified annex.
                     
                  
               
               
                  243.
                  BIOTECHNOLOGY ROADMAP
                  
                     (a)
                     Roadmap required
                     The Secretary of Defense shall develop a biotechnology roadmap to guide the efforts of the Department of Defense relating to biotechnology.
                  
                  
                     (b)
                     Elements
                     In the roadmap required by subsection (a), the Secretary of Defense shall—
                     
                        (1)
                        clearly articulate the strategic objectives of the Department of Defense relating to biotechnology;
                     
                     
                        (2)
                        for each strategic objective, establish specific goals and milestones for the achievement of such objective, including timelines for meeting such goals and milestones; 
                     
                     
                        (3)
                        in the case of each updated version of the roadmap following submittal of the initial roadmap under subsection (d)(1), include—
                        
                           (A)
                           a review of the goals and milestones established under paragraph (2) to ensure such goals and milestones continue to align with strategic objectives under paragraph (1); and
                        
                        
                           (B)
                           a description of any goals and milestones that changed as a result of such review;
                        
                     
                     
                        (4)
                        separately identify each biotechnology effort covered by the strategy, including any programs, projects, or other activities associated with such effort within the Office of the Secretary of Defense, the Armed Forces, and other organizations of the Department, and for each such effort provide—
                        
                           (A)
                           a description of the effort;
                        
                        
                           (B)
                           an estimate of the funding dedicated to the effort;
                        
                        
                           (C)
                           a timeline for carrying out the effort; and
                        
                        
                           (D)
                           an explanation of how the effort aligns with the strategic objectives under paragraph (1);
                        
                     
                     
                        (5)
                        identify and describe the role of each organization of the Department with responsibilities relating to biotechnology under the strategy;
                     
                     
                        (6)
                        establish metrics to measure the progress of the Department in meeting the objectives, goals, and milestones under the strategy;
                     
                     
                        (7)
                        based on such metrics, assess the progress of the Department in meeting such objectives, goals, and milestones;
                     
                     
                        (8)
                        based on the results of such assessment, make any necessary adjustments to the planning and execution of the roadmap to ensure the Department makes continuous progress toward achieving the objectives under paragraph (1); 
                     
                     
                        (9)
                        assess the overall risk to the security of the United States of the biotechnology efforts covered by the strategy;
                     
                     
                        (10)
                        analyze any requirements of the Federal Government that hinder the ability of the Department to advance and use biotechnology;
                     
                     
                        (11)
                        provide for the development and support of the biotechnology workforce of the Department, including personnel with responsibilities relating directly to biotechnology and personnel who indirectly support the biotechnology efforts of the Department such as personnel involved program management, acquisition, investment, and legal matters;
                     
                     
                        (12)
                        with respect to the biotechnology workforce described in paragraph (11)—
                        
                           (A)
                           identify the total number of biotechnology positions required to support the objectives of the roadmap—
                           
                              (i)
                              as of the date of the road map; and
                           
                           
                              (ii)
                              over the periods of five and 10 years following such date;
                           
                        
                        
                           (B)
                           indicate the number of such positions that have been filled as of the date of the roadmap;
                        
                        
                           (C)
                           describe the positions included in the biotechnology workforce, including a description of—
                           
                              (i)
                              the role of each position in supporting the objectives under paragraph (1); and
                           
                           
                              (ii)
                              the qualifications required for each position, including any qualifications relating to seniority level, education, training, and security clearances; 
                           
                        
                        
                           (D)
                           identify any challenges affecting the ability of the Department to develop the biotechnology workforce and propose solutions to those challenges;
                        
                        
                           (E)
                           assess whether the codes used to define positions and roles within the workforce of the Department adequately cover the range of positions and personnel that comprise the biotechnology workforce, such as personnel in research, engineering, and testing; 
                        
                        
                           (F)
                           identify mechanisms to enable the Department to access outside expertise relating to biotechnology, including mechanisms to assemble a pool of outside experts who have been prequalified (including by obtaining any necessary security clearances) to provide advice and assistance to the Department on matters relating to biotechnology on an as-needed basis;
                        
                        
                           (G)
                           assess whether personnel occupying existing positions in the Department could be used to meet biotechnology workforce needs with additional training and, if so, the nature and scope of the training required;
                        
                     
                     
                        (13)
                        address collaboration between the Department and international partners to advance research on biotechnology, which shall include—
                        
                           (A)
                           a description of any international partnerships under which the United States is collaborating with partners to conduct biotechnology research and development for defense purposes;
                        
                        
                           (B)
                           a description of any new international partnerships that may be entered into, or existing partnerships that may be modified, to provide for such collaboration; and
                        
                        
                           (C)
                           identification of any challenges affecting the ability of the Department engage in such collaboration with international partners, including—
                           
                              (i)
                              any limitations on co-investments within international partnerships;
                           
                           
                              (ii)
                              any United States export controls or other technology protections that hinder information sharing within such partnerships; and
                           
                           
                              (iii)
                              any other challenges that may prevent the full utilization of such partnerships for such collaboration.
                           
                        
                     
                  
                  
                     (c)
                     Consultation
                     In preparing the roadmap required under subsection (a), the Secretary of Defense shall consult with—
                     
                        (1)
                        the Under Secretary of Defense for Research and Engineering;
                     
                     
                        (2)
                        the Under Secretary of Defense for Acquisition and Sustainment;
                     
                     
                        (3)
                        the Secretaries of the military departments; and
                     
                     
                        (4)
                        such other officials of the Department of Defense as the Secretary determines appropriate.
                     
                  
                  
                     (d)
                     Submittal to Congress; updates
                     
                        (1)
                        Initial submission
                        Not later than one year after the date of the enactment of this Act, the Secretary of Defense shall submit to the congressional defense committees the roadmap developed under subsection (a).
                     
                     
                        (2)
                        Annual updates
                        Not less frequently than once every two years following the submittal of the initial roadmap under paragraph (1), the Secretary shall—
                        
                           (A)
                           review and update the roadmap; and
                        
                        
                           (B)
                           submit an updated version of the roadmap to the congressional defense committees.
                        
                     
                     
                        (3)
                        Form
                        Each version of the roadmap required to be submitted under this subsection may be submitted in classified form, but if so submitted, shall include an unclassified executive summary.
                     
                  
                  
                     (e)
                     Public availability
                     On annual basis, the Secretary shall make an unclassified version of the most recent roadmap submitted under subsection (d) available on a publicly accessible website of the Department of Defense.
                  
                  
                     (f)
                     Biotechnology defined
                     In this section, the term biotechnology means the application of science and technology to living organisms and to parts, products and models of such organisms to alter living or non-living materials for the production of knowledge, goods, or services.
                  
               
               
                  244.
                  AUTHORITY FOR SECRETARY OF DEFENSE TO ENTER INTO AN AGREEMENT FOR AN ASSESSMENT OF BIOTECHNOLOGY CAPABILITIES OF ADVERSARIES OF THE UNITED STATES
                  
                     (a)
                     In general
                     Not later than 120 days after the date of the enactment of this Act, the Secretary of Defense shall seek to enter into an agreement with a federally funded research and development center to conduct an assessment related to biotechnology and provide recommendations to the Secretary.
                  
                  
                     (b)
                     Agreement elements
                     Under an agreement between the Secretary and a federally funded research and development center under this section, the center shall agree to—
                     
                        (1)
                        conduct an assessment of—
                        
                           (A)
                           scientific topics related to biotechnology;
                        
                        
                           (B)
                           scientific capabilities of potential adversaries of the United States, such as China, Iran, and the Russian Federation, related to biotechnology; and
                        
                        
                           (C)
                           the current gaps and future scientific and technological needs for adversaries of the United States to be successful with respect to biotechnology capabilities; and
                        
                     
                     
                        (2)
                        develop recommendations with respect to useful indications of any advancement of such adversaries regarding such capabilities.
                     
                  
                  
                     (c)
                     Responsibilities of Secretary
                     Under an agreement between the Secretary and a federally funded research and development center under this section, the Secretary shall agree to—
                     
                        (1)
                        appoint appropriate Department of Defense employees as liaisons to the center to support the timely conduct of the assessment described in subsection (b)(1);
                     
                     
                        (2)
                        provide the center with access to materials relevant to the conduct of such assessment, consistent with the protection of sources and methods and other critically sensitive information; and
                     
                     
                        (3)
                        ensure that appropriate members and staff of the center have the necessary clearances, obtained in an expedited manner, to conduct such assessment.
                     
                  
                  
                     (d)
                     Report
                     
                        (1)
                         In general
                        If the Secretary enters into an agreement with a federally funded research and development center under this section, not later than October 1, 2025, the Secretary shall submit to the congressional defense committees and the National Security Commission on Emerging Biotechnology a report that includes the findings and recommendations of the center developed pursuant to the assessment described in subsection (b)(1).
                     
                     
                        (2)
                        Form of report
                        The report under paragraph (1) shall be submitted in unclassified form, but may contain a classified annex.
                     
                     
                        (3)
                        Transmittal to other Department entities
                        The Secretary shall transmit to relevant offices of the Department of Defense, including the offices of the Under Secretary of Defense for Acquisition and Sustainment, the Under Secretary of Defense for Research and Engineering, the Under Secretary of Defense for Policy, the Under Secretary of Defense for Intelligence and Security, and the Office of Net Assessment, a copy of the report under paragraph (1).
                     
                  
               
               
                  245.
                  SENSE OF CONGRESS ON RESEARCH AND DEVELOPMENT OF SOLID ROCKET MOTOR MIXING TECHNOLOGY AND THE MISSILE INDUSTRIAL BASE
                  
                     (a)
                     Findings
                     Congress finds the following:
                     
                        (1)
                        Domestic production capabilities for solid rocket motors have inherent limitations due to the mixing technology that is currently in use, a technology that hasn’t changed for over 60 years, for which there is a single supplier, and which is particularly vulnerable to foreign object debris.
                     
                     
                        (2)
                        New, efficient, and ecologically friendly solid rocket motor mixing technologies have the potential to assist in ramping-up tactical missile production in anticipation of increased global instability.
                     
                  
                  
                     (b)
                     Sense of Congress
                     It is the sense of Congress that the Secretary of the Air Force should pursue efforts to research, develop, and demonstrate advanced propellant mixing technologies for solid rocket motor propulsion systems that can be inserted into current or planned production facilities in order to provide additional surge capabilities to meet near-term supply needs.
                  
               
               
                  246.
                  FUNDING FOR DEMONSTRATION OF HIGH-PRESSURE WATERJET CUT AND CAPTURE SYSTEM TO DEMILITARIZE UNDERWATER MUNITIONS
                  
                     (a)
                     Increase
                     Notwithstanding the amounts set forth in the funding tables in division D, the amount authorized to be appropriated in section 201 for research, development, test and evaluation, Army, as specified in the corresponding funding table in section 4201, for advanced component development and prototypes, environmental quality technology—DEM/VAL, line 060 (PE 0603779A) is hereby increased by $5,000,000 (to be available for the demonstration of high-pressure waterjet cut and capture system to demilitarize underwater munitions).
                  
                  
                     (b)
                     Offset
                     Notwithstanding the amounts set forth in the funding tables in division D, the amount authorized to be appropriated in section 201 for research, development, test and evaluation, Defense-wide, as specified in the corresponding funding table in section 4201, for basic research, defense research sciences, line 002 (PE 0601101E) is hereby reduced by $5,000,000.
                  
               
               
                  247.
                  MODIFICATION TO ARTIFICIAL INTELLIGENCE EDUCATION STRATEGY
                  Section 256 of the National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2020 (Public Law 116–92; 133 Stat. 1290) is amended by adding at the end the following new subsection:
                  
                     
                        (d)
                        Artificial intelligence and machine learning education platforms
                        
                           (1)
                           In general
                           Not later than 180 days after the date of the enactment of the National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2025, each Secretary of a military department shall provide personnel in that Secretary’s department with distance education courses on—
                           
                              (A)
                              the foundational concepts of artificial intelligence and machine learning; and
                           
                           
                              (B)
                              the responsible and ethical use of artificial intelligence and machine learning applications.
                           
                        
                        
                           (2)
                           Report
                           Not later than 270 days after the date of the enactment of this Act, the Secretary of Defense shall submit to the congressional defense committees a report on the progress of the Secretaries of the military departments in implementing paragraph (1). 
                        
                     
                     .
                  
               
               
                  248.
                  REPORT ON ARTIFICIAL INTELLIGENCE WORKFORCE OF THE DEPARTMENT OF DEFENSE
                  
                     (a)
                     Report required
                     Not later than 180 days after the date of the enactment of this Act, the Secretary of Defense shall submit to the congressional defense committees a report that includes—
                     
                        (1)
                        an assessment of the effectiveness of the artificial intelligence workforce of the Department of Defense;
                     
                     
                        (2)
                        identification of any gaps in the skills and training of such workforce; and
                     
                     
                        (3)
                        a description of any actions that may be carried out to preserve and enhance such workforce to ensure the global technological competitiveness of the United States.
                     
                  
                  
                     (b)
                     Artificial intelligence workforce defined
                     In this section, the term artificial intelligence workforce means members of the Armed Forces and civilian personnel of the Department Defense with responsibilities relating to the research, development, procurement, or operational use of artificial intelligence technology.
                  
               
               
                  249.
                  INCREASE IN FUNDING FOR HIGH-HYPERSONIC DETONATION PROPULSION RESEARCH AND TECHNOLOGY
                  
                     (a)
                     Increase
                     Notwithstanding the amounts set forth in the funding tables in division D, the amount authorized to be appropriated in section 201 for RDT&amp;amp;E, Air Force for Aerospace Propulsion, line 008 as specified in the corresponding funding table in section 4201, for high-hypersonic detonation propulsion research and technology is hereby increased by $5,000,000; and
                  
                  
                     (b)
                     Offset
                     Notwithstanding the amounts set forth in the funding tables in division D, the amount authorized to be appropriated in section 301 for O&amp;amp;M, Air Force for Administration, line 410, as specified in the corresponding funding table in section 4301, for program decrease is hereby reduced by $5,000,000.
                  
               
               
                  250.
                  INCREASE IN FUNDING FOR ADAPTIVE AND INTELLIGENT ADVERSARY-THREAT MODELS
                  
                     (a)
                     Increase
                     Notwithstanding the amounts set forth in the funding tables in division D, the amount authorized to be appropriated in section 201 for RDT&amp;amp;E, Army for Soldier Lethality Technology, line 010 as specified in the corresponding funding table in section 4201, for adaptive and intelligent adversary-threat models is hereby increased by $5,000,000.
                  
                  
                     (b)
                     Offset
                     Notwithstanding the amounts set forth in the funding tables in division D, the amount authorized to be appropriated in section 301 for O&amp;amp;M, Army for Other Personnel Support, line 470 as specified in the corresponding funding table in section 4301, for program decrease is hereby reduced by $5,000,000.
                  
               
               
                  251.
                  FUNDING FOR SURFACE AND SHALLOW WATER MINE COUNTER-MEASURES
                  
                     (a)
                     Increase
                     Notwithstanding the amounts set forth in the funding tables in division D, the amount authorized to be appropriated in section 201 for research, development, test and evaluation, Navy, as specified in the corresponding funding table in section 4201, for advanced component development and prototypes, surface and shallow water mine countermeasures, line 035 (PE 0603502N), is hereby increased by $9,000,000.
                  
                  
                     (b)
                     Offset
                     Notwithstanding the amounts set forth in the funding tables in division D, the amount authorized to be appropriated in section 201 for research, development, test and evaluation, Navy, as specified in the corresponding funding table in section 4201, for advanced component development and prototypes, chalk coral, line 063 (PE 0603734N), is hereby reduced by $9,000,000.
                  
               
               
                  252.
                  REPORT ON POTENTIAL INCLUSION OF ISRAEL IN THE NATIONAL TECHNOLOGY AND INDUSTRIAL BASE
                  
                     (a)
                     Assessment
                     The Secretary of Defense shall assess the feasibility and advisability of including Israel in the national technology and industrial base.
                  
                  
                     (b)
                     Elements
                     The assessment under subsection (a) shall include the following:
                     
                        (1)
                        A detailed assessment of the potential benefit to the national security of the United States of including Israel in the national technology and industrial base.
                     
                     
                        (2)
                        An assessment of how Israel’s inclusion in the national technology and industrial base may affect research and development projects on which Israel and the United States are collaborating.
                     
                     
                        (3)
                        Detailed delineation of the specific steps Israel must take to facilitate eligibility for inclusion in the national technology and industrial base.
                     
                     
                        (4)
                        An analysis of the progress Israel has made, as of the date of the assessment, with respect to the steps described in paragraph (3).
                     
                     
                        (5)
                        Analysis of how Israel's potential inclusion in the national technology and industrial base could aid United States strategic competitiveness with China.
                     
                     
                        (6)
                        An assessment of any barriers—
                        
                           (A)
                           to expansion of the national technology and industrial base generally; and
                        
                        
                           (B)
                           to Israel's inclusion in the national technology and industrial base specifically.
                        
                     
                  
                  
                     (c)
                     Report
                     Not later than 30 days after the date of the enactment of this Act, the Secretary of Defense shall submit to the congressional defense committees a report on the results of the assessment conducted under subsection (a).
                  
                  
                     (d)
                     Form
                     The report required under subsection (c) shall be submitted in unclassified form, but may include a classified annex.
                  
                  
                     (e)
                     National technology and industrial base defined
                     In this section, the term national technology and industrial base has the meaning given that term in section 4801 of title 10, United States Code.
                  
               
               
                  253.
                  PLAN ON HACKING FOR DEFENSE EXPANSION
                  
                     (a)
                     Plan required
                     Not later than 180 days after the date of the enactment of this Act, the Secretary of Defense shall submit to the congressional defense committees a plan for the expansion of the Hacking for Defense program of the Department of Defense over the period of three fiscal years following the date of the plan.
                  
                  
                     (b)
                     Elements
                     The plan required under subsection (a) shall include measures—
                     
                        (1)
                        to increase the number of institutions of higher education participating in Hacking for Defense programs;
                     
                     
                        (2)
                        to expand support for certain elite teams after Hacking for Defense course completion;
                     
                     
                        (3)
                        to expand opportunities after Hacking for Defense course completion in countries that are members of—
                        
                           (A)
                           the AUKUS partnership;
                        
                        
                           (B)
                           the Quadrilateral Security Dialogue; or
                        
                        
                           (C)
                           the North Atlantic Treaty Organization;
                        
                     
                     
                        (4)
                        to partner with other organizations and elements of the Department of Defense to expand the Hacking for Defense curriculum to a second semester prototyping course; and
                     
                     
                        (5)
                        to support the development of professional military education programs in the National Defense University system that are similar to the Hacking for Defense program.
                     
                  
                  
                     (c)
                     Definitions
                     In this section:
                     
                        (1)
                        The term AUKUS partnership means the enhanced trilateral security partnership between Australia, the United Kingdom, and the United States announced in September 2021. 
                     
                     
                        (2)
                        The term Quadrilateral Security Dialogue means the strategic security dialogue between—
                        
                           (A)
                           India;
                        
                        
                           (B)
                           Japan;
                        
                        
                           (C)
                           Australia; and
                        
                        
                           (D)
                           the United States.
                        
                     
                  
               
               
                  254.
                  REPORT ON POTENTIAL STRATEGIC PARTNERSHIP BETWEEN THE DEFENSE INNOVATION UNIT AND THE TAIWAN MINISTRY OF NATIONAL DEFENSE
                  
                     (a)
                     In general
                     The Secretary of Defense shall assess the feasibility and advisability of establishing a strategic partnership between the Defense Innovation Unit and the Taiwan Ministry of National Defense, pursuant to which the Unit and the Ministry would—
                     
                        (1)
                        coordinate on defense industrial priorities;
                     
                     
                        (2)
                        collaborate on the development of dual-use defense capabilities.
                     
                     
                        (3)
                        establish mechanisms to streamline emerging defense technology research and development and microchip supply chain security;
                     
                     
                        (4)
                        create additional pathways to market for relevant defense technology startups; and
                     
                     
                        (5)
                        carry out other activities to—
                        
                           (A)
                           enhance market opportunities for United States-based and Taiwan-based defense technology companies;
                        
                        
                           (B)
                           bolster Taiwan’s defense industrial base;
                        
                        
                           (C)
                           harmonize global security posture through emerging technology; and
                        
                        
                           (D)
                           counter the development of dual-use defense technologies by the Chinese Communist Party.
                        
                     
                  
                  
                     (b)
                     Report
                     Not later than 180 days after the date of the enactment of this Act, the Secretary of Defense shall submit to the congressional defense committees a report on the results of the assessment conducted under subsection (a). 
                  
               
               
                  255.
                  SENSE OF CONGRESS ON THE CONTINUING NEED FOR INNOVATION IN THE ARMED FORCES
                  
                     (a)
                     Sense of Congress
                     It is the sense of Congress that Congress encourages the Armed Forces to continue innovating, including by using technological methods that incorporate artificial intelligence, quantum information science, advanced air mobility, and counter-UAS systems to ultimately maintain, bolster, and augment military readiness, wartime preparedness, and ensure the overall national security of the United States.
                  
                  
                     (b)
                     Definitions
                     In this section:
                     
                        (1)
                        The term advanced air mobility means a transportation system that transports people and property by air between two points in the United States using aircraft with advanced technologies, including electric aircraft or electric vertical take-off and landing aircraft, in both controlled and uncontrolled airspace.
                     
                     
                        (2)
                        The term artificial intelligence has the meaning given such term in section 5002 of the National Artificial Intelligence Initiative Act of 2020 (15 U.S.C. 9401).
                     
                     
                        (3)
                        The term counter-UAS system has the meaning given such term in section 44801(5) of title 49, United States Code.
                     
                     
                        (4)
                        The term quantum information science has the meaning given such term in section 2 of the National Quantum Initiative Act (15 U.S.C. 8801).
                     
                  
               
               
                  256.
                  FUNDING FOR ALTERNATIVE DOMESTIC SOURCE C-130J IRSS
                  
                     (a)
                     Increase
                     Notwithstanding the amounts set forth in the funding tables in division D, the amount authorized to be appropriated in section 201 for research, development, test, and evaluation, Defense-wide, as specified in the corresponding funding table in section 4201, for operational system development, Aviation Systems, line 281 (PE 1160403BB) is hereby increased by $6,000,000 (with the amount of such increase to be made available for Alternative Domestic Source C–130J IRSS).
                  
                  
                     (b)
                     Offset
                     Notwithstanding the amounts set forth in the funding tables in division D, the amount authorized to be appropriated in section 201 for research, development, test, and evaluation, Defense-wide, as specified in the corresponding funding table in section 4201, for operational system development, industrial base analysis and sustainment support, line 214 (PE 0607210D8Z) is hereby reduced by $6,000,000.
                  
               
               
                  257.
                  FUNDING FOR VIRTUAL ENGINEERING FOR ARMY READINESS AND SUSTAINMENT
                  
                     (a)
                     Increase
                     Notwithstanding the amounts set forth in the funding tables in division D, the amount authorized to be appropriated in section 201 for Research, Development, Test and Evaluation, Next-Generation Combat Vehicle Advanced Technology, line 43, as specified in the corresponding funding table in section 4201, for Virtual Engineering for Army Readiness and Sustainment, is hereby increased by $7,000,000.
                  
                  
                     (b)
                     Offset
                     Notwithstanding the amounts set forth in the funding tables in division D, the amount authorized to be appropriated in section 301 for Operations and Maintenance, Defense-Wide, for the office of the Secretary of Defense, line 470, as specified in the corresponding funding table in section 4301, is hereby reduced by $7,000,000.
                  
               
               
                  258.
                  FUNDING FOR HUMANITARIAN AIRBORNE MOBILE INFRASTRUCTURE CAPABILITY
                  
                     (a)
                     Increase
                     Notwithstanding the amounts set forth in the funding tables in division D, the amount authorized to be appropriated in section 201 for Research, Development, Test and Evaluation, Army for Ground Advanced Technology, line 38, as specified in the corresponding funding table in section 4201, for Humanitarian Airborne Mobile Infrastructure Capability, is hereby increased by $4,200,000.
                  
                  
                     (b)
                     Offset
                     Notwithstanding the amounts set forth in the funding tables in division D, the amount authorized to be appropriated in section 301 for Operations and Maintenance, Defense-Wide, for the office of the Secretary of Defense, line 470, as specified in the corresponding funding table in section 4301, is hereby reduced by $4,200,000.
                  
               
               
                  259.
                  FUNDING FOR FUEL CELL MULTI-MODULAR USE UTILIZING HYDROGEN
                  
                     (a)
                     Increase
                     Notwithstanding the amounts set forth in the funding tables in division D, the amount authorized to be appropriated in section 201 for Research, Development, Test and Evaluation, Army for Ground Advanced Technology, line 38, as specified in the corresponding funding table in section 4201, for Fuel Cell Multi-Modular Use (FC-MMU) Utilizing Hydrogen, is hereby increased by $10,000,000.
                  
                  
                     (b)
                     Offset
                     Notwithstanding the amounts set forth in the funding tables in division D, the amount authorized to be appropriated in section 301 for Operation and Maintenance, Defense-Wide, for the office of the Secretary of Defense, line 470, as specified in the corresponding funding table in section 4301, is hereby reduced by $10,000,000.
                  
               
            
         
         
            III
            OPERATION AND MAINTENANCE
            
               A
               Authorization of Appropriations
               
                  301.
                  AUTHORIZATION OF APPROPRIATIONS
                  Funds are hereby authorized to be appropriated for fiscal year 2025 for the use of the Armed Forces and other activities and agencies of the Department of Defense for expenses, not otherwise provided for, for operation and maintenance, as specified in the funding table in section 4301.
               
            
            
               B
               Energy and Environment
               
                  311.
                  EXTENSION OF REQUIREMENT TO ESTABLISH A SCHEDULE OF BLACK START EXERCISES TO ASSESS THE ENERGY RESILIENCE AND ENERGY SECURITY OF MILITARY INSTALLATIONS
                  Section 2920(d)(2)(C)(ii) of title 10, United States Code, is amended by striking 2027 and inserting 2032. 
               
               
                  312.
                  EXTENSION OF PROHIBITION ON REQUIRED DISCLOSURE
                  Section 318(a)(2) of the National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2024 (Public Law 118–31) is amended by striking one-year period and inserting five-year period. 
               
               
                  313.
                  MODIFICATIONS TO PILOT PROGRAM ON USE OF SUSTAINABLE AVIATION FUEL
                  Section 324(g) of the National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2023 is amended by striking paragraph (2) and inserting the following new paragraphs:
                  
                     
                        (2)
                        The term applicable material means the following:
                        
                           (A)
                           Monoglycerides, diglycerides, and triglycerides.
                        
                        
                           (B)
                           Free fatty acids.
                        
                        
                           (C)
                           Fatty acid esters.
                        
                        
                           (D)
                           Municipal solid waste.
                        
                        
                           (E)
                           Renewable natural gas.
                        
                     
                     
                        (3)
                        The term biomass has the meaning given such term in section 45K(c)(3) of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986.
                     
                     
                        (4)
                        The term lifecycle greenhouse gas emissions reduction percentage means, with respect to non-petroleum-based jet fuel, the percentage reduction in lifecycle greenhouse gas emissions achieved by such fuel as compared with petroleum-based jet fuel, as determined using the following:
                        
                           (A)
                           The most up-to-date Carbon Offsetting and Reduction Scheme for International Aviation which has been adopted by the International Civil Aviation Organization with the agreement of the United States.
                        
                        
                           (B)
                           The most up-to-date determinations under the model known as the Greenhouse gases, Regulated Emissions, and Energy use in Technologies model developed by Argonne National Laboratory.
                        
                     
                     
                        (5)
                        The term sustainable aviation fuel means the portion of liquid fuel that is not kerosene and that—
                        
                           (A)
                           meets the requirements of—
                           
                              (i)
                              ASTM International Standard D7566; or 
                           
                           
                              (ii)
                              the Fischer Tropsch provisions of ASTM International Standard D1655, Annex A1;
                           
                        
                        
                           (B)
                           is not derived from coprocessing an applicable material (or materials derived from an applicable material) with a feedstock which is not biomass;
                        
                        
                           (C)
                           is not derived from palm fatty acid distillates or petroleum; and 
                        
                        
                           (D)
                           has a lifecycle greenhouse gas emissions reduction percentage of at least 50 percent.
                        
                     
                     .
                  
               
               
                  314.
                  MODIFICATION OF TEMPORARY MORATORIUM ON INCINERATION BY DEPARTMENT OF DEFENSE OF PERFLUOROALKYL SUBSTANCES, POLYFLUOROALKYL SUBSTANCES, AND AQUEOUS FILM FORMING FOAM
                  Section 343(a)(2) of the National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2022 (Public Law 117–81; 10 U.S.C. 2701 note) is amended by inserting before the period at the end the following: or issues an interim guidance on the destruction and disposal of PFAS substances and materials containing PFAS substances.
               
               
                  315.
                  INITIATIVE TO CONTROL AND COMBAT THE SPREAD OF COCONUT RHINOCEROS BEETLE IN HAWAII
                  
                     (a)
                     In general
                     The Secretary of Defense shall enhance efforts to manage, control, and interdict the coconut rhinoceros beetle on military installations in Hawaii.
                  
                  
                     (b)
                     Authorized activities
                     The efforts required under subsection (a) shall include the following:
                     
                        (1)
                        Carrying out science-based management and control programs to reduce the effect of the coconut rhinoceros beetle on military installations and to prevent the introduction or spread of the coconut rhinoceros beetle to areas where such beetle has not yet been established.
                     
                     
                        (2)
                        Providing support for interagency and intergovernmental response efforts to control, interdict, monitor, and eradicate the coconut rhinoceros beetle.
                     
                     
                        (3)
                        Pursuing chemical, biological, and other control techniques, technology transfer, and best practices to support management, control, interdiction and, where possible, eradication of the coconut rhinoceros beetle from Hawaii.
                     
                     
                        (4)
                        Establishing an early detection and rapid response mechanism to monitor and deploy coordinated efforts if the coconut rhinoceros beetle, or another newly detected invasive alien species, is detected at new sites on military installations in Hawaii.
                     
                     
                        (5)
                        Carrying out such other activities as the Secretary determines appropriate to manage, control, and interdict the coconut rhinoceros beetle on military installations in Hawaii.
                     
                  
                  
                     (c)
                     Annual briefings
                     Not later than 180 days after the date of the enactment of this Act, and annually thereafter for each of the next three years, the Assistant Secretary of the Navy for Energy, Installations, and Environment shall provide to the Committees on Armed Services of the House of Representatives and the Senate a briefing on the implementation of this section, which shall include detailed information about the efforts of the Secretary to manage, control, and interdict the coconut rhinoceros beetle on military installations in Hawaii.
                  
               
               
                  316.
                  REVIEW AND PLAN REGARDING BIOSECURITY PROTOCOLS FOR HAWAII
                  
                     (a)
                     In general
                     Not later than one year after the date of the enactment of this Act, the Secretary of Defense, in consultation with each Secretary of a military department, the commanders of United States Indo-Pacific Command and its component commands, and State, local, and non-governmental organizations, shall submit to the congressional defense committees a report on biosecurity protocols and procedures to prevent the introduction and spread of invasive species to the State of Hawaii.
                  
                  
                     (b)
                     Elements
                     The report required under subsection (a) shall include each of the following:
                     
                        (1)
                        A review of current Department of Defense protocols and procedures, including gaps and differences between military installations, for biosecurity and to prevent the introduction and spread of invasive species in the State of Hawaii.
                     
                     
                        (2)
                        A review of the efforts and progress of the Department of Defense in implementing the relevant recommendations of the 2015 Regional Biosecurity Plan for Micronesia and Hawaii.
                     
                     
                        (3)
                        A plan to—
                        
                           (A)
                           improve coordination and alignment between Department of Defense components in Hawaii to prevent the introduction and spread of invasive species, including through early detection on Department of Defense assets;
                        
                        
                           (B)
                           develop and implement best practices to improve biosecurity protocols while minimizing the effects on military operations, including during military exercises; and
                        
                        
                           (C)
                           improve coordination with State and local government entities and non-governmental organizations to enhance biosecurity and to prevent the introduction and spread of invasive species.
                        
                     
                  
                  
                     (c)
                     Update
                     Not later than five years after the date of the submission of the report required under subsection (a), the Secretary of Defense shall provide to the congressional defense committees an update on the progress of the Department of Defense in implementing the plan referred to in subsection (b)(3).
                  
                  
                     (d)
                     Definitions
                     In this section:
                     
                        (1)
                        The term invasive species has the meaning given such term in section 10(a)(4) of the Fish and Wildlife Coordination Act (16 U.S.C. 666c-1(a)(4)).
                     
                     
                        (2)
                        The term biosecurity means measures taken to protect against biological agents that pose a threat to public health, plant or animal health, or the environment.
                     
                  
               
               
                  317.
                  PILOT PROGRAM TO INSTALL PROPANE-POWERED GENERATORS AT A DOMESTIC DEFENSE INDUSTRIAL BASE FACILITY
                  
                     (a)
                     Program required
                     Not later than one year after the date of the enactment of this Act, the Assistant Secretary of Defense for Energy, Installations, and the Environment shall carry out a pilot program under which the Assistant Secretary shall install propane-powered generators at an organic industrial base facility. Under the pilot program, such generators shall—
                     
                        (1)
                        be used in tandem with an on-site microgrid in order to improve the resiliency and redundancy of power generation at the facility; and
                     
                     
                        (2)
                        be powered by conventional or renewable propane.
                     
                  
                  
                     (b)
                     Definitions
                     In this section:
                     
                        (1)
                        The term microgrid has the meaning given such term in section 641(b)(6) of the United States Energy Storage Competitiveness Act of 2007 (42 U.S.C. 17231(b)(6)).
                     
                     
                        (2)
                        The term propane has the meaning given such term in section 3(6) of the Propane Education and Research Act of 1006 (15 U.S.C. 6402(6)).
                     
                  
                  
                     (c)
                     Termination
                     The authority to carry out the pilot program under this section shall terminate on the date that is five years after the date of the enactment of this Act.
                  
               
               
                  318.
                  PROHIBITION ON IMPLEMENTATION OF REGULATION RELATING TO MINIMIZING RISK OF CLIMATE CHANGE
                  None of the funds authorized to be appropriated by this Act or otherwise made available for the Department of Defense for fiscal year 2025 may be used to finalize or implement any rule based on the advanced notice of proposed rulemaking titled Federal Acquisition Regulation: Minimizing the Risk of Climate Change in Federal Acquisitions (October 15, 2021; 86 Fed. Reg. 57404).
               
               
                  319.
                  STORMWATER DISCHARGE PERMITS FOR DEPARTMENT OF DEFENSE FACILITIES
                  Not later than one year after the date of the enactment of this Act, with respect to each permit under section 402(p) of the Federal Water Pollution Control Act (33 U.S.C. 1342(p)) that applies to a Department of Defense facility, the Secretary of Defense shall request from the State that issued the permit, or the Administrator of the Environmental Protection Agency, as applicable, approval of a modification to such permit, or a revision to an applicable stormwater management plan, to require—
                  
                     (1)
                     monitoring of discharges of perfluoroalkyl and polyfluoroalkyl substances not less frequently than quarterly; and
                  
                  
                     (2)
                     implementation of appropriate best management practices or control technologies to reduce such discharges consistent with the requirements of such Act.
                  
               
               
                  320.
                  EXTENSION OF PERIOD FOR COOPERATIVE AGREEMENTS UNDER NATIVE AMERICAN LANDS ENVIRONMENTAL MITIGATION PROGRAM
                  Section 2713(c)(3) of title 10, United States Code, is amended by striking two calendar years and inserting five calendar years. 
               
            
            
               C
               Logistics and Sustainment
               
                  331.
                  PLANS REGARDING CONDITION AND MAINTENANCE OF PREPOSITIONED STOCKPILES OF NAVY, AIR FORCE, AND MARINE CORPS
                  
                     (a)
                     Plan required
                     Not later than 90 days after the date of the enactment of this Act, the Secretary of the Navy, the Secretary of the Air Force, and the Commandant of the Marine Corps shall each develop a plan to—
                     
                        (1)
                        improve the required inspection procedures for the prepositioned stockpiles of the Armed Force concerned, for the purpose of identifying deficiencies and conducting maintenance repairs at levels necessary to ensure such prepositioned stockpiles are mission capable; and
                     
                     
                        (2)
                        with respect to the Navy and Marine Corps, provide an analysis of the readiness of ships that hold or facilitate the off-loading of prepositioned stocks and suggestions for improving inspection procedures of such ships.
                     
                  
                  
                     (b)
                     Implementation
                     Not later than 30 days after the date on which the Secretary or the Commandant completes the development of a plan under subsection (a), and not less frequently than twice each year thereafter for the three-year period beginning on the date of the enactment of this Act, the Secretary or the Commandant shall inspect the prepositioned stockpiles of the Armed Force concerned in accordance with the procedures under such plan.
                  
                  
                     (c)
                     Briefings
                     
                        (1)
                        Briefing on plan
                        Not later than 120 days after the date of the enactment of this Act, the Secretaries and the Commandant shall each provide to the congressional defense committees a briefing on the plan developed under subsection (a).
                     
                     
                        (2)
                        Briefings on status of prepositioned stockpiles
                        Not later than 180 days after the date of the enactment of this Act, and every 180 days thereafter for the three-year period beginning on the date of the enactment of this Act, the Secretaries and the Commandant shall each provide to the congressional defense committees a briefing on the status and condition of the prepositioned stockpiles of the Armed Force concerned.
                     
                  
                  
                     (d)
                     Armed Force concerned
                     In this section, the term Armed Force concerned means—
                     
                        (1)
                        the Navy, with respect to the Secretary of the Navy;
                     
                     
                        (2)
                        the Marine Corps with respect to the Commandant of the Marine Corps; and
                     
                     
                        (3)
                        the Air Force, with respect to the Secretary of the Air Force.
                     
                  
               
               
                  332.
                  PILOT PROGRAM ON IMPROVING MARINE CORPS SUPPLY CHAIN AND LOGISTICS THROUGH THE INTEGRATION OF ARTIFICIAL INTELLIGENCE AND MACHINE LEARNING SOFTWARE SOLUTIONS
                  
                     (a)
                     In general
                     Not later than 180 days after the date of enactment of this Act, and subject to the availability of appropriations, the Commandant of the Marine Corps may select a unit within the Marine Corps to carry out a pilot program to improve military supply chain readiness, budget efficiency, and logistics productivity through the integration and use of artificial intelligence (AI) and machine learning software solutions. 
                  
                  
                     (b)
                     Activities
                     The Commandant of the Marine Corps shall seek to carry out the pilot program under subsection (a) in partnership with a federally funded research and development center, a University Affiliated Research Center, a center of excellence, a military service laboratory, or 1 or more private-sector entities with experience in machine learning-driven logistics planning and decision support tools in an effort to streamline and modernize the Marine Corps logistics operations and any other partners the commandant deems necessary. 
                  
                  
                     (c)
                     Goals
                     The goals of the pilot program are to leverage AI solutions to—
                     
                        (1)
                        optimize logistics operations and inventory management, specifically within the United States Indo-Pacific Command Area of Responsibility;
                     
                     
                        (2)
                        improve military force readiness;
                     
                     
                        (3)
                        streamline materiel distribution and logistics optimization;
                     
                     
                        (4)
                        improve situational awareness by providing predictions driven by a modular, probabilistic simulation of logistics processes in the face of uncertainty;
                     
                     
                        (5)
                        enhance productivity by minimizing and, where possible, automating reporting and inter- actions with data systems; and
                     
                     
                        (6)
                        scale Marine Corps integration of AI-enhanced logistics and supply chain solutions to solve operational challenges.
                     
                  
                  
                     (d)
                     Briefing
                     By December 1 of each year in which the pilot program is carried out, the Commandant of the Marine Corps shall provide to the congressional defense committees a report that includes—
                     
                        (1)
                        a description of the logistics and supply chain problem sets that were evaluated by the pilot program;
                     
                     
                        (2)
                        an assessment of the impact of using AI to solve supply chain and logistics challenges, including any changes to readiness, budget efficiency, and productivity of military equipment and materiel;
                     
                     
                        (3)
                        any barriers identified to using AI to solve supply chain and logistics challenges;
                     
                     
                        (4)
                        recommendations regarding how the Department of Defense can better leverage artificial intelligence to address supply chain and logistics challenges in a contested environment;
                     
                     
                        (5)
                        an assessment of the impact of AI software solutions on visibility of materiel at different levels of command within the Marine Corps; and
                     
                     
                        (6)
                        the viability of expanding these software solutions to other units and areas of responsibility.
                     
                  
                  
                     (e)
                     Termination
                     The pilot program under this section shall terminate on the date that is 3 years after the date on which the Marine Corps enters into the first agreement with a qualified entity under subsection (b).
                  
               
               
                  333.
                  RESPONSIVENESS TESTING OF DEFENSE LOGISTICS AGENCY PHARMACEUTICAL CONTRACTS
                  The Director of the Defense Logistics Agency shall modify Defense Logistics Agency Instructions 5025.03 and 3110.01—
                  
                     (1)
                     to require Defense Logistics Agency Troop Support to coordinate annually with customers in the military departments to conduct responsiveness testing of the Defense Logistics Agency’s contingency contracts for pharmaceuticals; and
                  
                  
                     (2)
                     to include the results of such testing, as reported by customers in the military departments, in the annual reports of the Warstopper Program.
                  
               
               
                  334.
                  INVESTMENT PLAN FOR DEPARTMENT OF DEFENSE DEPOTS AND INDUSTRIAL FACILITIES
                  
                     (a)
                     Sense of Congress
                     It is the sense of Congress that—
                     
                        (1)
                        the current state of Department of Defense depots and industrial facilities is concerning;
                     
                     
                        (2)
                        charged with maintaining critical equipment and complex weapons systems, these Government-owned, Government-operated installations are vital to supporting military readiness and conflict deterrence;
                     
                     
                        (3)
                        robust funding should be provided for sustained facilities modernization; and
                     
                     
                        (4)
                        facilities and equipment modernization will cost hundreds of billions and require sustained management attention over many years.
                     
                  
                  
                     (b)
                     Investment plan
                     Not later than 90 days after the date of the enactment of this Act, the Secretary of Defense, in coordination with the Secretary of each of the military departments, shall submit to the congressional defense committees an investment plan that includes detailed information about the minimum annual investment in Department of Defense depots and industrial facilities that is needed to prevent further infrastructure deterioration. The minimum investment level included in the plan shall reflect a percentage of the 3-year rolling average of maintenance, repair, and overhaul workload funded at all Department depots and industrial facilities. Modernization efforts addressed in the plan shall account for future technological demands, labor needs, and threats to facility security including those posed by extreme weather and natural disasters.
                  
               
            
            
               D
               Studies and Reports
               
                  341.
                  JOINT SAFETY COUNCIL REPORT AND BRIEFING REQUIREMENTS
                  Section 185 of title 10, United States Code, is amended—
                  
                     (1)
                     in subsection (k)—
                     
                        (A)
                        in paragraph (1)—
                        
                           (i)
                           by striking Chair and inserting Chairperson; and 
                        
                        
                           (ii)
                           by striking semi-annual and inserting biannual; and
                        
                     
                     
                        (B)
                        in paragraph (2)—
                        
                           (i)
                           in the matter preceding subparagraph (A)—
                           
                              (I)
                              by striking , 2023, and not later than and inserting and;
                           
                           
                              (II)
                              by striking thereafter; and
                           
                           
                              (III)
                              by inserting biannual before report;
                           
                        
                        
                           (ii)
                           in subparagraph (A), by striking and after the semicolon;
                        
                        
                           (iii)
                           in subparagraph (B), by striking the period and inserting ; and; and
                        
                        
                           (iv)
                           by adding at the end the following new subparagraph:
                           
                              
                                 (C)
                                 for the year covered by the report—
                                 
                                    (i)
                                    releasable information regarding any mishap that occurred during such year; and
                                 
                                 
                                    (ii)
                                    an identification of any corrective or preventative action implemented pursuant to a recommendation made in a safety or legal investigation report of such a mishap.
                                 
                              
                              ; and
                           
                        
                     
                  
                  
                     (2)
                     by adding at the end the following new subsection:
                     
                        
                           (j)
                           Biannual briefings
                           Not later than March 31 and December 31 of each year, the Chairperson of the Joint Council shall provide to the congressional defense committees a briefing on the contents of the report required under subsection (k) for the corresponding date.
                        
                        .
                     
                  
               
               
                  342.
                  CHANGE IN TIMEFRAME FOR REPORT ON ABILITY OF DEPARTMENT OF DEFENSE TO MEET REQUIREMENTS FOR ENERGY RESILIENCE AND ENERGY SECURITY MEASURES ON MILITARY INSTALLATIONS
                  
                     (a)
                     In general
                     Section 2920(g) of title 10, United States Code, is amended by striking 2029 and inserting 2027. 
                  
                  
                     (b)
                     Briefing requirement
                     Not later than June 30, 2025, the Secretary of Defense shall provide to the congressional defense committees a briefing on the progress of the Secretary in meeting the requirements under section 2920(a) of title 10, United States Code.
                  
               
               
                  343.
                  MODIFICATIONS TO COMPTROLLER GENERAL ANNUAL REVIEWS OF F–35 SUSTAINMENT EFFORTS
                  Section 357 of the National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2022 (Public Law 117–81) is amended—
                  
                     (1)
                     in subsection (a)—
                     
                        (A)
                        in the matter preceding paragraph (1), by striking 2022, 2023, 2024, and 2025 and inserting 2025, 2026, and 2027;
                     
                     
                        (B)
                        in paragraph (1)—
                        
                           (i)
                           by striking (including and inserting , which may include; and
                        
                        
                           (ii)
                           by striking the closing parenthesis; and
                        
                     
                     
                        (C)
                        in paragraph (2), by striking  as a result of such review; and
                     
                  
                  
                     (2)
                     in subsection (b) by striking of the following: and all that follows through the period at the end of paragraph (4) and inserting of matters regarding the sustainment or affordability of the F–35 Lighting II aircraft program that the Comptroller General, after consulting with staff from the Committees on Armed Services of the House of Representatives and the Senate, determines to be of critical importance to the long-term viability of such program..
                  
               
               
                  344.
                  STUDY ON FIREFIGHTER RAPID INTERVENTION TEAM TRAINING AND EQUIPMENT AT DEPARTMENT OF DEFENSE FACILITIES
                  
                     (a)
                     Study
                     The Secretary of Defense shall conduct a study of the training standards for firefighter rapid intervention teams and the use of equipment by such teams at Department of Defense facilities. Such study shall include—
                     
                        (1)
                        an identification of such training standards and equipment that, as of the date of the enactment of this Act, are in use by such teams and the extent to which such training and equipment is standard across firefighter rapid intervention teams located at different Department facilities;
                     
                     
                        (2)
                        an identification of such training standards and equipment that, as of the date of the enactment of this Act, are in use by such teams at Department naval and port facilities and a determination by the Secretary of whether such training and equipment is sufficient to prepare such teams for fires on the various ships that dock at such facilities; and
                     
                     
                        (3)
                        a description of any incident that—
                        
                           (A)
                           occurred during the ten-year period preceding the date of the enactment of this Act in which a firefighter was injured or killed at a Department facility; and
                        
                        
                           (B)
                           the Secretary finds could have been prevented if the firefighters involved had received different training or equipment; and
                        
                     
                  
                  
                     (b)
                     Report to Congress
                     Not later than September 30, 2025, the Secretary of Defense shall submit to the Committees on Armed Services of the Senate and House of Representatives a report containing the results of the study required under subsection (a).
                  
                  
                     (c)
                     Firefighter rapid intervention team defined
                     In this section, the term firefighter rapid intervention team means a designated firefighting crew that serves as a stand-by rescue team at the scenes of fires and other emergencies and is available for the immediate search and rescue of missing, trapped, or injured firefighters if required.
                  
               
               
                  345.
                  JOINT SAFETY COUNCIL REVIEW OF COMPTROLLER GENERAL REPORT ON FATIGUE OF MEMBERS OF THE ARMED FORCES
                  
                     (a)
                     Review
                     Not later than 180 days after the date of the enactment of this Act, the Joint Safety Council established under section 185 of title 10, United States Code, shall review the issues identified in the report of the Comptroller General of the United States titled Military Readiness: Comprehensive Approach Needed to Address Service Member Fatigue and Manage Related Efforts (GAO-24-105917), including—
                     
                        (1)
                        insufficient oversight authority at the Department of Defense level;
                     
                     
                        (2)
                        a lack of assigned leadership on fatigue-related matters within the Armed Forces; and
                     
                     
                        (3)
                        fragmented fatigue-related research efforts across the Department;
                     
                  
                  
                     (b)
                     Briefing
                     Not later than September 1, 2025, the Joint Safety Council shall provide to the congressional defense committees a briefing on the steps the Council is taking to address the findings of the Comptroller General and to reinvigorate efforts to limit the fatigue of members of the Armed Forces.
                  
               
               
                  346.
                  STUDY ON USE AND PRESENCE OF TOXIC CHEMICALS IN PANAMA CANAL ZONE
                  
                     (a)
                     Study required
                     Not later than December 31, 2025, the Armed Forces Pest Management Board shall conduct a study on the use and presence of herbicide agents and toxic chemicals by the Department in the Panama Canal Zone during the period beginning on January 1, 1958, and ending on December 31, 1999.
                  
                  
                     (b)
                     Elements
                     The study conducted under subsection (a) shall include the following:
                     
                        (1)
                        An assessment to determine the degree to which herbicide agents, including those known as rainbow herbicides, and other toxic chemicals were used, tested, stored, or otherwise dispensed within the Panama Canal Zone while members of the United States Armed Forces were stationed there.
                     
                     
                        (2)
                        An assessment of how many members of the United States Armed Forces may have been affected by the usage of herbicide agents and other toxic chemicals.
                     
                  
                  
                     (c)
                     Definitions
                     In this section:
                     
                        (1)
                        The term herbicide agent means a chemical in an herbicide.
                     
                     
                        (2)
                        The term rainbow herbicide means herbicides known as Agent Pink, Agent Purple, Agent Blue, Agent Green, Agent White, and Agent Orange.
                     
                     
                        (3)
                        The term toxic chemicals means persistent organic pollutants, as defined by the Environmental Protection Agency.
                     
                  
               
               
                  347.
                  REPORT ON WILDFIRE FIGHTING CAPABILITIES OF THE DEPARTMENT OF DEFENSE IN HAWAII
                  Not later than 180 days after the date of the enactment of this Act, the Secretary of Defense shall submit to Congress a report that contains—
                  
                     (1)
                     an assessment of the wildfire fighting capabilities of the Department of Defense in Hawaii, including any shortfalls in firefighting equipment, facilities, training, plans, or personnel;
                  
                  
                     (2)
                     a determination of the feasibility of establishing a wildfire training institute on O‘ahu;
                  
                  
                     (3)
                     an identification of any additional authorities or resources required to integrate the capabilities of the Department of Defense with the capabilities of other Federal, State, and local emergency responders; and
                  
                  
                     (4)
                     an identification of any memoranda or other agreements between the Department and State, local, Federal, or other disaster response organizations regarding wildland fire mitigation, prevention, response, and recovery.
                  
               
               
                  348.
                  BRIEFING ON ARMY ORGANIZATIONAL CLOTHING AND EQUIPMENT USED IN COLD AND EXTREME COLD WEATHER ENVIRONMENTS
                  
                     (a)
                     In general
                     Not later than March 31, 2025, the Secretary of the Army shall provide to the Committees on Armed Services of the Senate and the House of Representatives a briefing on the modernization and sustainment plans of the Army for organizational clothing and equipment used in cold and extreme cold weather environments. The briefing shall include the following topics:
                     
                        (1)
                        The planned requirement of the Army for organizational clothing and equipment used in cold and extreme cold weather environments.
                     
                     
                        (2)
                        The current inventory of the Army of such clothing and equipment.
                     
                     
                        (3)
                        The modernization plan of the Army with respect to such clothing and equipment.
                     
                     
                        (4)
                        Any relevant investments currently programmed for such clothing and equipment in the Future Years Defense Program.
                     
                     
                        (5)
                        The cost and timeline associated with implementing such plan, including any additional outlays by Congress necessary to fulfil the plan.
                     
                     
                        (6)
                        Such other matters as the Secretary finds appropriate.
                     
                  
                  
                     (b)
                     Organizational clothing and equipment used in cold and extreme cold weather environments
                     In this section, the term organizational clothing and equipment used in cold and extreme cold weather environments includes extreme cold weather clothing, footwear, handwear, shelters, sleep systems, sleep mats, snowshoes, and skis.
                  
               
            
            
               E
               Other Matters
               
                  351.
                  EXPANDED LICENSE RECIPROCITY FOR DEPARTMENT OF DEFENSE VETERINARIANS
                  Section 1060c of title 10, United States Code, is amended—
                  
                     (1)
                     in the section heading, by striking 
                           in emergencies
                        ;
                  
                  
                     (2)
                     in subsection (a), by striking for the purposes described in subsection (c); and
                  
                  
                     (3)
                     by striking subsection (c).
                  
               
               
                  352.
                  PROVISION OF SPORTS FOODS AND THIRD-PARTY CERTIFIED DIETARY SUPPLEMENTS TO MEMBERS OF THE ARMED FORCES
                  
                     (a)
                     Use of amounts
                     The Secretary of Defense may use amounts authorized to be appropriated to the Department of Defense for Operation and Maintenance for the procurement of sports foods and third-party certified dietary supplements and the distribution of such foods and supplements to members of the Armed Forces.
                  
                  
                     (b)
                     Acquisition and distribution
                     
                        (1)
                        In general
                        The Secretary shall authorize registered dietitians and health care providers of the Department at the operational unit level to acquire sports foods and third-party certified dietary supplements and to distribute such foods and supplements to members of the Armed Forces.
                     
                     
                        (2)
                        Rule of construction
                        Nothing in this subsection shall be construed to—
                        
                           (A)
                           augment morale, welfare, and recreation funds or activities; or
                        
                        
                           (B)
                           augment or replace the budget or services of dining facilities of the Department.
                        
                     
                  
                  
                     (c)
                     Criteria
                     The Secretary shall require that any dietary supplements and sports foods procured under this section are tested by an appropriate non-Department of Defense entity to ensure that product labels for content type and amount are accurate and that the product is free of substances banned by the Department.
                  
                  
                     (d)
                     Definitions
                     In this section:
                     
                        (1)
                        The term dietary supplement has the meaning given that term in section 201(ff) of the Federal Food, Drug, and Cosmetic Act (21 U.S.C. 321(ff)).
                     
                     
                        (2)
                        The term sports food means a product with a nutrition facts label that is meant to support daily macronutrient and caloric needs in support of fueling and hydration of members of the Armed Forces to enhance combat readiness, which may be used to improve physical performance and long-term cognitive health and optimize recovery.
                     
                  
               
               
                  353.
                  FUNDING FOR BASE SUPPORT
                  
                     (a)
                     Increase
                     Notwithstanding the amounts set forth in the funding tables in division D, the amount authorized to be appropriated in section 301 for operating forces, line 090 as specified in the corresponding funding table in section 4301 for Operations and Maintenance, for base support, is hereby increased by $5,000,000.
                  
                  
                     (b)
                     Offset
                     Notwithstanding the amounts set forth in the funding tables in division D, the amount authorized to be appropriated in section 301 for Administration and Service-Wide Activities for line 410 as specified in the corresponding funding table in section 4301, for Administration is hereby reduced by $5,000,000.
                  
               
               
                  354.
                  AVAILABILITY OF OPERATION AND MAINTENANCE APPROPRIATIONS FOR SOFTWARE
                  Section 2241(a) of title 10, United States Code, is amended by adding at the end the following new paragraph:
                  
                     
                        (8)
                        Acquisition, development, modification, and sustainment of software.
                     
                     .
                  
               
            
         
         
            IV
            MILITARY PERSONNEL AUTHORIZATIONS
            
               A
               Active Forces
               
                  401.
                  END STRENGTHS FOR ACTIVE FORCES
                  The Armed Forces are authorized strengths for active duty personnel as of September 30, 2025, as follows:
                  
                     (1)
                     The Army, 442,300.
                  
                  
                     (2)
                     The Navy, 332,300.
                  
                  
                     (3)
                     The Marine Corps, 172,300.
                  
                  
                     (4)
                     The Air Force, 320,000.
                  
                  
                     (5)
                     The Space Force, 9,800.
                  
               
            
            
               B
               Reserve Forces
               
                  411.
                  END STRENGTHS FOR SELECTED RESERVE
                  
                     (a)
                     In general
                     The Armed Forces are authorized strengths for Selected Reserve personnel of the reserve components as of September 30, 2025, as follows:
                     
                        (1)
                        The Army National Guard of the United States, 325,000.
                     
                     
                        (2)
                        The Army Reserve, 175,800.
                     
                     
                        (3)
                        The Navy Reserve, 57,700.
                     
                     
                        (4)
                        The Marine Corps Reserve, 32,500.
                     
                     
                        (5)
                        The Air National Guard of the United States, 107,700.
                     
                     
                        (6)
                        The Air Force Reserve, 67,000.
                     
                     
                        (7)
                        The Coast Guard Reserve, 7,000.
                     
                  
                  
                     (b)
                     End strength reductions
                     The end strengths prescribed by subsection (a) for the Selected Reserve of any reserve component shall be proportionately reduced by—
                     
                        (1)
                        the total authorized strength of units organized to serve as units of the Selected Reserve of such component which are on active duty (other than for training) at the end of the fiscal year; and
                     
                     
                        (2)
                        the total number of individual members not in units organized to serve as units of the Selected Reserve of such component who are on active duty (other than for training or for unsatisfactory participation in training) without their consent at the end of the fiscal year.
                     
                  
                  
                     (c)
                     End strength increases
                     Whenever units or individual members of the Selected Reserve of any reserve component are released from active duty during any fiscal year, the end strength prescribed for such fiscal year for the Selected Reserve of such reserve component shall be increased proportionately by the total authorized strengths of such units and by the total number of such individual members.
                  
               
               
                  412.
                  END STRENGTHS FOR RESERVES ON ACTIVE DUTY IN SUPPORT OF THE RESERVES
                  Within the end strengths prescribed in section 411(a), the reserve components of the Armed Forces are authorized, as of September 30, 2025, the following number of Reserves to be serving on full-time active duty or full-time duty, in the case of members of the National Guard, for the purpose of organizing, administering, recruiting, instructing, or training the reserve components:
                  
                     (1)
                     The Army National Guard of the United States, 30,845.
                  
                  
                     (2)
                     The Army Reserve, 16,511.
                  
                  
                     (3)
                     The Navy Reserve, 10,132.
                  
                  
                     (4)
                     The Marine Corps Reserve, 2,400.
                  
                  
                     (5)
                     The Air National Guard of the United States, 25,736.
                  
                  
                     (6)
                     The Air Force Reserve, 6,311.
                  
               
               
                  413.
                  END STRENGTHS FOR MILITARY TECHNICIANS (DUAL STATUS)
                  The minimum number of military technicians (dual status) as of the last day of fiscal year 2025 for the reserve components of the Army and the Air Force (notwithstanding section 129 of title 10, United States Code) shall be the following:
                  
                     (1)
                     For the Army National Guard of the United States, 22,294.
                  
                  
                     (2)
                     For the Army Reserve, 6,492.
                  
                  
                     (3)
                     For the Air National Guard of the United States, 10,744.
                  
                  
                     (4)
                     For the Air Force Reserve, 6,697.
                  
               
               
                  414.
                  MAXIMUM NUMBER OF RESERVE PERSONNEL AUTHORIZED TO BE ON ACTIVE DUTY FOR OPERATIONAL SUPPORT
                  During fiscal year 2025, the maximum number of members of the reserve components of the Armed Forces who may be serving at any time on full-time operational support duty under section 115(b) of title 10, United States Code, is the following:
                  
                     (1)
                     The Army National Guard of the United States, 17,000.
                  
                  
                     (2)
                     The Army Reserve, 13,000.
                  
                  
                     (3)
                     The Navy Reserve, 6,200.
                  
                  
                     (4)
                     The Marine Corps Reserve, 3,000.
                  
                  
                     (5)
                     The Air National Guard of the United States, 16,000.
                  
                  
                     (6)
                     The Air Force Reserve, 14,000.
                  
               
            
            
               C
               Authorization of Appropriations
               
                  421.
                  MILITARY PERSONNEL
                  
                     (a)
                     Authorization of appropriations
                     Funds are hereby authorized to be appropriated for fiscal year 2025 for the use of the Armed Forces and other activities and agencies of the Department of Defense for expenses, not otherwise provided for, for military personnel, as specified in the funding table in section 4401.
                  
                  
                     (b)
                     Construction of authorization
                     The authorization of appropriations in the subsection (a) supersedes any other authorization of appropriations (definite or indefinite) for such purpose for fiscal year 2025.
                  
               
            
            
               D
               Reports
               
                  431.
                  ANNUAL DEFENSE MANPOWER PROFILE REPORT: EXPANSION OF JUSTIFICATIONS FOR END STRENGTHS
                  Section 115a of title 10, United States Code, is amended—
                  
                     (1)
                     in subsection (a), by striking Congress and inserting to the Committees on Armed Services of the Senate and the House of Representatives, and furnish to any Member of Congress upon request,; and
                  
                  
                     (2)
                     in subsection (b)—
                     
                        (A)
                        by inserting (1) before The Secretary; and
                     
                     
                        (B)
                        by adding at the end the following new paragraph:
                        
                           
                              (2)
                              The justification and explanation required by paragraph (1) shall include the following:
                              
                                 (A)
                                 An assessment of the most important threats facing the United States, disaggregated by geographic combatant command.
                              
                              
                                 (B)
                                 An explanation of how personnel end strength level requests address threats described in subparagraph (A).
                              
                              
                                 (C)
                                 The rationale for recommended increases or decreases in active, reserve, and civilian personnel for each component of the Department of Defense.
                              
                              
                                 (D)
                                 The rationale for recommended increases or decreases in active, reserve, and civilian personnel for each of the geographic combatant commands.
                              
                              
                                 (E)
                                 The primary functions or missions of active, reserve, and civilian personnel in each geographic combatant command.
                              
                              
                                 (F)
                                 An assessment of any areas in which decreases in active, reserve, or civilian personnel would not result in a decrease in readiness.
                              
                              
                                 (G)
                                 The actual end strength number for each armed force for the prior fiscal year, compared to authorized end strength levels.
                              
                              
                                 (H)
                                 The shortfall in recruiting by each armed force as a percentage, as the Secretary determines appropriate.
                              
                              
                                 (I)
                                 The number of applicants who were found to be ineligible for service in the Department of Defense during the prior fiscal year as a result of current enlistment standards, disaggregated by armed force and reason for disqualification.
                              
                           
                           .
                        
                     
                  
               
            
         
         
            V
            MILITARY PERSONNEL POLICY
            
               A
               Officer Policy
               
                  501.
                  GRADE OF SURGEON GENERAL OF THE NAVY
                  
                     (a)
                     Modification to distribution of commissioned officers on active duty in general officer and flag officer grades
                     Section 525 of title 10, United States Code, is amended—
                     
                        (1)
                        in subsection (a)(3)(B) by striking 34 and inserting 35 ; and
                     
                     
                        (2)
                        in subsection (a)(3)(C) by striking 49 and inserting 48 .
                     
                  
                  
                     (b)
                     Grade of Surgeon General of the Navy
                     Section 8077 of title 10, United States Code, is amended by adding at the end the following new subsection:
                     
                        
                           (c)
                           Grade
                           The Surgeon General, while so serving, shall hold the grade of O–9.
                        
                        .
                     
                  
               
               
                  502.
                  REDISTRIBUTION OF GENERAL OFFICERS OF THE MARINE CORPS ON ACTIVE DUTY
                  Section 525(a)(4) of title 10, United States Code, is amended—
                  
                     (1)
                     in subparagraph (B), by striking 17 and inserting 18; and
                  
                  
                     (2)
                     in subparagraph (C), by striking 22 and replacing with 21.
                     
                  
               
               
                  503.
                  REMOVAL OF EXEMPTION RELATING TO ATTENDING PHYSICIAN TO THE CONGRESS FOR CERTAIN DISTRIBUTION AND GRADE LIMITATIONS
                  Section 525 of title 10, United States Code, is amended—
                  
                     (1)
                     by striking subsection (f); and
                  
                  
                     (2)
                     by redesignating subsection (g) as subsection (f).
                  
               
               
                  504.
                  AUTHORITY TO EXCLUDE ADDITIONAL POSITIONS FROM LIMITATIONS ON THE NUMBER OF GENERAL OFFICERS AND FLAG OFFICERS ON ACTIVE DUTY
                  
                     (a)
                     In general
                     Section 526 of title 10, United States Code, is amended—
                     
                        (1)
                        by redesignating subsections (g) through (j) as subsections (h) through (k), respectively; and
                     
                     
                        (2)
                        by inserting, after subsection (f), the following new subsection (g):
                        
                           
                              (g)
                              Secretary of Defense adaptive force account
                              The Secretary of Defense may designate up to 45 general officer and flag officer positions for exclusion from the limitations in subsection (a) and in section 525(a) of this title.
                           
                           .
                        
                     
                  
                  
                     (b)
                     Conforming amendment
                     Paragraph (3) of subsection (a) of section 501 of the National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2017 (Public Law 114–328; 10 U.S.C. 525 note) is hereby repealed.
                  
               
               
                  505.
                  MODIFICATION TO GRADE OF ATTENDING PHYSICIAN TO THE CONGRESS
                  Section 715 of title 10, United States Code, is amended to read as follows:
                  
                     
                        715.
                        ATTENDING PHYSICIAN TO THE CONGRESS: GRADE
                        An officer serving as Attending Physician to the Congress, while so serving, holds the grade of O–6.
                     
                     .
                  
               
               
                  506.
                  AUTHORITY TO SEPARATE A REGULAR OFFICER AFTER A BOARD OF INQUIRY RECOMMENDS RETAINING SUCH OFFICER
                  Section 1182(d)(1) of title 10, United States Code, is amended—
                  
                     (1)
                     by striking If and inserting 
                           (A) Subject to subparagraph (B), if; and
                  
                  
                     (2)
                     by adding at the end the following new subparagraphs:
                     
                        
                           (B)
                           If the board determines that there is a substantiated basis for separating the officer and the Chief of the armed force concerned recommends separation, the Secretary of the military department concerned may determine, pursuant to the process under subparagraph (C), whether to involuntarily separate the officer under subparagraph (D).
                        
                        
                           (C)
                           The process under this subparagraph shall include the following:
                           
                              (i)
                              The provision of notice to the officer regarding such process.
                           
                           
                              (ii)
                              An opportunity for the officer to present evidence to the Secretary of the military department concerned. 
                           
                        
                        
                           (D)
                           Subject to subparagraph (E), the Secretary of the military department concerned may involuntarily separate the officer if, after reviewing all the evidence in the record, such Secretary determines that—
                           
                              (i)
                              the recommendation of the board is clearly contrary to the substantial weight of such evidence;
                           
                           
                              (ii)
                              the officer’s conduct—
                              
                                 (I)
                                 discredits the armed force concerned;
                              
                              
                                 (II)
                                 adversely affects good order and discipline; or
                              
                              
                                 (III)
                                 adversely affects the officer’s performance of duty; and
                              
                           
                           
                              (iii)
                              separation is essential to the interests of justice, discipline, and proper administration of the armed force concerned.
                           
                        
                        
                           (E)
                           
                              (i)
                              The least favorable characterization of a separation under subparagraph (D) shall be general (under honorable conditions).
                           
                           
                              (ii)
                              The Secretary of the military department concerned may delegate the authority to make a determination under subparagraph (D) only to a civilian official of such military department who was appointed by the President, by and with the advice and consent of the Senate. 
                           
                        
                        .
                     
                  
               
               
                  507.
                  INCLUSION OF SERVICE IN SROTC IN THE COMPUTATION OF LENGTH OF SERVICE OF AN OFFICER APPOINTED FOR COMPLETING SROTC
                  Subsection (c) of section 2106 of title 10, United States Code, is amended—
                  
                     (1)
                     by striking August 1, 1979, as a member of the Selected Reserve and inserting an em dash; and
                  
                  
                     (2)
                     by adding at the end the following new paragraphs:
                     
                        
                           (1)
                           August 1, 1979, as a member of the Selected Reserve; or
                        
                        
                           (2)
                           the date of the enactment of the National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2025, regardless of the component in which the officer performed such enlisted service.
                        
                        .
                     
                  
               
               
                  508.
                  IMPROVEMENTS RELATING TO MEDICAL OFFICER OF THE MARINE CORPS POSITION
                  
                     (a)
                     In general
                     
                        Chapter 806 of title 10, United States Code, is amended by adding at the end the following new section:
                     
                        
                           8048.
                           MEDICAL OFFICER OF THE MARINE CORPS
                           
                              (a)
                              There is a Medical Officer of the Marine Corps who shall be appointed from among flag officers of the Navy.
                           
                           
                              (b)
                              The Medical Officer of the Marine Corps, while so serving, shall hold the grade of rear admiral (lower half).
                           
                        
                        .
                     
                  
                  
                     (b)
                     Exclusion from certain distribution limitations
                     Section 525 of such title is amended—
                     
                        (1)
                        by redesignating subsection (g) as subsection (h); and
                     
                     
                        (2)
                        by inserting after subsection (f) the following new subsection (g):
                        
                           
                              (g)
                              A naval officer while serving as the Medical Officer of the Marine Corps is in addition to the number that would otherwise be permitted for the Navy for officers serving on active duty in the grade of rear admiral (lower half) under subsection (a).
                           
                           .
                        
                     
                  
                  
                     (c)
                     Exclusion from active duty strength limitations
                     Section 526 of such title is amended—
                     
                        (1)
                        by redesignating subsections (g) through (j) as subsections (h) through (k), respectively; and
                     
                     
                        (2)
                        by inserting after subsection (f) the following new subsection (g):
                        
                           
                              (g)
                              Exclusion of Medical Officer of Marine Corps
                              The limitations of this section do not apply to the flag officer who is serving as the Medical Officer of the Marine Corps.
                           
                           .
                        
                     
                  
               
               
                  509.
                  REPEAL OF REQUIREMENT OF ONE YEAR OF ACTIVE DUTY SERVICE FOR ORIGINAL APPOINTMENT AS A WARRANT OFFICER IN THE DEPARTMENT OF THE AIR FORCE
                  Section 9160 of title 10, United States Code, is repealed.
               
               
                  509A.
                  PILOT PROGRAM ON PEER AND SUBORDINATE EVALUATIONS OF CERTAIN OFFICERS
                  
                     (a)
                     Establishment
                     Not later than one year after the date of the enactment of this Act, the Secretary concerned shall implement, in an Armed Force, a five-year pilot program, pursuant to which—
                     
                        (1)
                        an officer described in subsection (b) shall be anonymously evaluated by peers and subordinates; and
                     
                     
                        (2)
                        the results of such evaluations shall be furnished to a command selection or command qualification board concerned; and
                     
                     
                        (3)
                        the command selection or command qualification board shall consider such results in determining whether to recommend such officer for such selection or qualification.
                     
                  
                  
                     (b)
                     Covered officers
                     An officer described in this subsection is a regular officer—
                     
                        (1)
                        eligible for consideration for command;
                     
                     
                        (2)
                        in grade O-5 or O-6; and
                     
                     
                        (3)
                        in a career field—
                        
                           (A)
                           specified in subsection (c); or
                        
                        
                           (B)
                           determined by the Secretary concerned.
                        
                     
                  
                  
                     (c)
                     Covered career fields
                     The career fields specified in this subsection are the following:
                     
                        (1)
                        In the Navy, surface warfare, submarine warfare, special warfare, or explosive ordnance disposal.
                     
                     
                        (2)
                        In the Marine Corps, infantry, logistics, or field artillery.
                     
                     
                        (3)
                        In the Air Force, operations or logistics.
                     
                     
                        (4)
                        In the Space Force, space operations.
                     
                     
                        (5)
                        In the Coast Guard, afloat or engineering and command, control, communications, computers, cyber, and intelligence.
                     
                  
                  
                     (d)
                     Selection of evaluators
                     The Secretary concerned may select an individual to evaluate an officer under the pilot program if the Secretary determines such individual has worked with the officer closely enough to have an informed opinion regarding the officer’s leadership abilities. An officer may not have any input regarding the selection of an individual who shall evaluate such officer.
                  
                  
                     (e)
                     Report
                     Not later than three months after the termination of a pilot program, a Secretary concerned shall submit to the appropriate congressional committees a report regarding the pilot program. Elements of each such report shall include the following:
                     
                        (1)
                        The determination of the Secretary concerned whether the pilot program improved the command selection or command qualification process of the Armed Force.
                     
                     
                        (2)
                        The determination of the Secretary concerned whether to continue to use peer or subordinate evaluations in the command selection or command qualification process of such Armed Force.
                     
                  
                  
                     (f)
                     Definitions
                     In this section:
                     
                        (1)
                        The term appropriate congressional committees means—
                        
                           (A)
                           the Committee on Armed Services of the House of Representatives;
                        
                        
                           (B)
                           the Committee on Transportation and Infrastructure of the House of Representatives;
                        
                        
                           (C)
                           the Committee on Armed Services of the Senate; and
                        
                        
                           (D)
                           the Committee on Commerce, Science, and Transportation of the Senate.
                        
                     
                     
                        (2)
                        The terms regular and Secretary concerned have the meanings given such term in section 101 of title 10, United States Code.
                     
                  
               
            
            
               B
               Reserve Component Management
               
                  511.
                  GRADES OF CERTAIN CHIEFS OF RESERVE COMPONENTS
                  
                     (a)
                     In general
                     
                        (1)
                        Chief of Army Reserve
                        Section 7038(b) of title 10, United States Code, is amended by striking paragraph (4) and inserting the following:
                        
                           
                              (4)
                              The Chief of Army Reserve, while so serving, holds the grade of lieutenant general.
                           
                           .
                        
                     
                     
                        (2)
                        Chief of Navy Reserve
                        Section 8083(b) of such title is amended by striking paragraph (4) and inserting the following:
                        
                           
                              (4)
                              The Chief of Navy Reserve, while so serving, holds the grade of vice admiral.
                           
                           .
                        
                     
                     
                        (3)
                        Commander, Marine Forces Reserve
                        Section 8084(b) of such title is amended by striking paragraph (4) and inserting the following:
                        
                           
                              (4)
                              The Commander, Marine Forces Reserve, while so serving, holds the grade of lieutenant general.
                           
                           .
                        
                     
                     
                        (4)
                        Chief of Air Force Reserve
                        Section 9038(b) of such title is amended by striking paragraph (4) and inserting the following:
                        
                           
                              (4)
                              The Chief of Air Force Reserve, while so serving, holds the grade of lieutenant general.
                           
                           .
                        
                     
                  
                  
                     (b)
                     Effective date
                     The amendments made by subsection (a) shall take effect on the day that is one year after the date of the enactment of this Act and shall apply to appointments made after such date.
                  
               
               
                  512.
                  EXPANSION OF AUTHORITY TO CONTINUE RESERVE OFFICERS IN CERTAIN MILITARY SPECIALTIES ON THE RESERVE ACTIVE-STATUS LIST
                  Section 14701(a) of title 10, United States Code, is amended—
                  
                     (1)
                     in paragraph (1)—
                     
                        (A)
                        in subparagraph (A), by inserting (including an officer described in subparagraph (C)) after or a reserve officer;
                     
                     
                        (B)
                        by redesignating subparagraph (C) as subparagraph (D); and
                     
                     
                        (C)
                        by inserting, after subparagraph (B), the following new subparagraph (C):
                        
                           
                              (C)
                              An officer described in this subparagraph is a reserve officer in a grade above O-2 who has a military occupational specialty, rating, or specialty code in a military specialty designated, in regulations prescribed by the Secretary of the military department concerned, as subject to a shortage of personnel.
                           
                           ; and
                        
                     
                  
                  
                     (2)
                     by redesignating paragraphs (6) and (7) as paragraphs (7) and (8), respectively; and
                  
                  
                     (3)
                     by inserting, after paragraph (5), the following new paragraph (6):
                     
                        
                           (6)
                           A reserve officer described in paragraph (1)(C) and continued on the reserve active-status list pursuant to this section shall, if not earlier retired, transferred to the Retired Reserve, or discharged, be separated in accordance with section 14513 or 14514, as applicable, on the first day of the month after the month in which the officer completes 40 years of commissioned service. 
                        
                        .
                     
                  
               
               
                  513.
                  FEASIBILITY OF ESTABLISHING A UNIT OF THE NATIONAL GUARD IN AMERICAN SAMOA AND IN THE COMMONWEALTH OF THE NORTHERN MARIANA ISLANDS
                  
                     (a)
                     Determination required
                     The Secretary of Defense shall determine the feasibility of establishing—
                     
                        (1)
                        a unit of the National Guard in American Samoa; and
                     
                     
                        (2)
                        a unit of the National Guard in the Commonwealth of the Northern Mariana Islands.
                     
                  
                  
                     (b)
                     Force structure elements
                     In making the feasibility determination under subsection (a), the Secretary of Defense shall consider the following:
                     
                        (1)
                        The allocation of National Guard force structure and manpower to American Samoa and the Commonwealth of the Northern Mariana Islands in the event of the establishment of a unit of the National Guard in American Samoa and in the Commonwealth of the Northern Mariana Islands, and the impact of this allocation on existing National Guard units in the 50 States, the Commonwealth of Puerto Rico, the Virgin Islands, Guam, and the District of Columbia.
                     
                     
                        (2)
                        The Federal funding that would be required to support pay, benefits, training operations, and missions of members of a unit of the National Guard in American Samoa and the Commonwealth of the Northern Mariana Islands, based on the allocation derived from paragraph (1), and the equipment, including maintenance, required to support such force structure.
                     
                     
                        (3)
                        The presence of existing infrastructure to support a unit of the National Guard in American Samoa and the Commonwealth of the Northern Mariana Islands, and the requirement for additional infrastructure, including information technology infrastructure, to support such force structure, based on the allocation derived from paragraph (1).
                     
                     
                        (4)
                        How a unit of the National Guard in American Samoa and the Commonwealth of the Northern Mariana Island would accommodate the National Guard Bureau’s Essential Ten homeland defense capabilities (i.e., aviation, engineering, civil support teams, security, medical, transportation, maintenance, logistics, joint force headquarters, and communications) and reflect regional needs.
                     
                     
                        (5)
                        The manpower cadre, both military personnel and fulltime support, including National Guard technicians, required to establish, maintain, and sustain a unit of the National Guard in American Samoa and the Commonwealth of the Northern Mariana Islands, and the ability of American Samoa and of the Commonwealth of the Northern Mariana Islands to support demographically a unit of the National Guard at each location.
                     
                     
                        (6)
                        The ability of a unit of the National Guard in American Samoa and the Commonwealth of the Northern Mariana Islands to maintain unit readiness and the logistical challenges associated with transportation, communications, supply/ resupply, and training operations and missions.
                     
                  
                  
                     (c)
                     Submission of conclusion
                     Not later than 180 days after the date of the enactment of this Act, the Secretary of Defense shall notify the congressional defense committees of the results of the feasibility determination made under subsection (a). If the Secretary determines that establishment of a unit of the National Guard in American Samoa or the Commonwealth of the Northern Mariana Islands (or both) is feasible, the Secretary shall include in the notification the following:
                     
                        (1)
                        A determination of whether the executive branch of American Samoa and of the Commonwealth of the Northern Mariana Islands has enacted and implemented statutory authorization for an organized militia as a prerequisite for establishing a unit of the National Guard, and a description of any other steps that such executive branches must take to request and carry out the establishment of a National Guard unit.
                     
                     
                        (2)
                        A list of any amendments to titles 10, 32, and 37, United States Code, that would have to be enacted by Congress to provide for the establishment of a unit of the National Guard in American Samoa and in the Commonwealth of the Northern Mariana Islands.
                     
                     
                        (3)
                        A description of any required Department of Defense actions to establish a unit of the National Guard in American Samoa and in the Commonwealth of the Northern Mariana Islands.
                     
                     
                        (4)
                        A suggested timeline for completion of the steps and actions described in the preceding paragraphs.
                     
                  
               
               
                  514.
                  AMENDMENT TO EXTEND TIME PERIOD FOR TRANSFER OR DISCHARGE OF CERTAIN ARMY AND AIR FORCE RESERVE COMPONENT GENERAL OFFICERS
                  Section 14314 of title 10, United States Code, is amended—
                  
                     (1)
                     in subsection (a)— 
                     
                        (A)
                        by redesignating paragraphs (1), (2), (3), and (4) as subparagraphs (A), (B), (C), and (D), respectively; 
                     
                     
                        (B)
                        by striking Within and inserting (1) Except as provided in paragraph (2), within; and 
                     
                     
                        (C)
                        by inserting at the end the following new paragraph (2): 
                        
                           
                              (2)
                              For any general officer covered by paragraph (1) who is released from a joint duty assignment or other non-joint active-duty assignment, the Secretary concerned shall complete the transfer or discharge required by paragraph (1) not later than 60 days after the officer’s release.
                           
                           ; and
                        
                     
                  
                  
                     (2)
                     in subsection (c), by striking subsection (a)(3) and inserting subsection (a)(1)(C).
                  
               
            
            
               C
               General Service Authorities and Military Records
               
                  521.
                  TRANSFER TO THE SPACE FORCE OF COVERED SPACE FUNCTIONS OF THE AIR NATIONAL GUARD OF THE UNITED STATES
                  
                     (a)
                     Transfer of covered space functions
                     During the transition period, the Secretary of the Air Force may transfer to the Space Force the covered space functions of the Air National Guard of the United States. Any such transfer shall occur subject to section 104 of title 32, United States Code, and section 18238 of title 10, United States Code.
                  
                  
                     (b)
                     Transfer of units
                     Upon the transfer to the Space Force of the covered space functions of a unit of the Air National Guard of the United States, the Secretary of the Air Force may change the status of the unit from a unit of the Air National Guard of the United States to a unit of the United States Space Force;
                  
                  
                     (c)
                     Transfer of covered members
                     
                        (1)
                        Officers
                        During the transition period, the Secretary of Defense may, with the officer’s consent, transfer a covered officer of the Air National Guard of the United States to, and appoint the officer in, the Space Force.
                     
                     
                        (2)
                        Enlisted members
                        During the transition period, the Secretary of the Air Force may transfer each covered enlisted member of the Air National Guard of the United States to the Space Force, other than those covered enlisted members who do not consent to transfer. Upon such a transfer, the covered enlisted member so transferred ceases to be a member of the Air National Guard of the United States and is discharged from the enlistment of such covered enlisted member as a Reserve of the Air Force.
                     
                     
                        (3)
                        Effective date of transfers
                        Each transfer under this subsection shall be effective on the date specified by the Secretary of Defense, in the case of an officer, or the Secretary of the Air Force, in the case of an enlisted member, but not later than the last day of the transition period.
                     
                     
                        (4)
                        Maximum number of transfers
                        Not more than 580 members of the Air National Guard may be transferred under this subsection.
                     
                  
                  
                     (d)
                     Regulations
                     Transfers under subsection (c) shall be carried out under regulations prescribed by the Secretary of Defense. In the case of an officer, applicable regulations shall include those prescribed pursuant to section 716 of title 10, United States Code.
                  
                  
                     (e)
                     Term of initial enlistment in the Space Force
                     In the case of a covered enlisted member who is transferred to the Space Force in accordance with subsection (c), the Secretary of the Air Force may accept the initial enlistment of the enlisted member in the Space Force for a period of less than two years, but only if the period of enlistment in the Space Force is not less than the period remaining, as of the date of the transfer, in the enlisted member’s term of enlistment in a reserve component of the Air Force.
                  
                  
                     (f)
                     End strength adjustments upon transfers from the Air National Guard of the United States
                     During the transition period, upon the transfer to the Space Force of a covered space function of the Air National Guard of the United States—
                     
                        (1)
                        the end strength authorized for the Space Force pursuant to section 115(a)(1)(A) of title 10, United States Code, for the fiscal year during which the transfer occurs shall be increased by the number of billets associated with that mission; and
                     
                     
                        (2)
                        the end strength authorized for the Air National Guard of the United States pursuant to section 115(a)(2) of such title for such fiscal year shall be decreased by the same number.
                     
                  
                  
                     (g)
                     Administrative provisions
                     For purposes of the transfer of covered members of the Air National Guard of the United States in accordance with subsection (c)—
                     
                        (1)
                        the Air National Guard of the United States and the Space Force shall be considered to be components of the same Armed Force; and
                     
                     
                        (2)
                        the Space Force officer list shall be considered to be an active-duty list of an Armed Force.
                     
                  
                  
                     (h)
                     Retraining and reassignment for members not transferring
                     If a covered member of the Air National Guard of the United States does not consent to transfer to the Space Force in accordance with subsection (a), the Secretary of the Air Force shall provide the covered member retraining and reassignment within a reserve component of the Air Force.
                  
                  
                     (i)
                     Space Force units in affected States
                     In order to reduce the cost of transferring to the Space Force the covered space functions of the Air National Guard of the United States, and to reduce the impact of such transfer on the affected State, the following provisions apply:
                     
                        (1)
                        After a covered space function is transferred to the Space Force from the Air National Guard of the United States, the Space Force shall continue to perform the covered space function within the affected State;
                     
                     
                        (2)
                        Except when the Secretary of the Air Force determines that it would not be in the best interests of the United States, the Secretary shall seek to enter into an agreement with the Governor of an affected State, to provide for the Space Force to become a tenant organization on an installation of the National Guard of the affected State at which a covered space function was executed.
                     
                  
                  
                     (j)
                     Annual report
                     Not later than January 31 of each year during the transition period, the Secretary of Defense shall submit to the Committees on Armed Services of the Senate and House of Representatives a report on the progress of the transfer of covered space functions of the Air National Guard of the United States to the Space Force. Each such report shall include the following elements with respect to the year preceding the date of the report:
                     
                        (1)
                        A detailed description of actions taken to transfer the covered space functions to the Space Force.
                     
                     
                        (2)
                        An assessment of the effect of the transfers on the readiness and capabilities of the Space Force and the Air National Guard.
                     
                     
                        (3)
                        A summary of any challenge encountered during the transfer and steps taken to overcome such challenge.
                     
                     
                        (4)
                        The number of officers and enlisted members transferred to the Space Force.
                     
                     
                        (5)
                        Any recommendation of the Secretary, including additional legislation, to improve such transfer.
                     
                  
                  
                     (k)
                     Definitions
                     In this section:
                     
                        (1)
                        The term covered space functions of the Air National Guard of the United States means all Federal missions, units, personnel billets, equipment, and resources of the Air National Guard of the United States associated with the performance of a space-related function that is (as determined by the Secretary of the Air Force, in consultation with the Chief of Space Operations)—
                        
                           (A)
                           a core space-related function of the Space Force; or
                        
                        
                           (B)
                           otherwise integral to the mission of the Space Force.
                        
                     
                     
                        (2)
                        The term affected State means a State or territory the National Guard of that would be affected by the transfer of covered space functions to the Space Force.
                     
                     
                        (3)
                        The term covered, with respect to a member of the Air National Guard of the United States, has the meaning provided in section 1733(g) of the National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2024 (Public Law 118–31; 137 Stat. 676).
                     
                     
                        (4)
                        The term transition period means the period beginning on the date of the enactment of this Act and ending on the last day of the fourth fiscal year beginning after the date of the enactment of this Act.
                     
                  
               
               
                  522.
                  AUTHORITY TO DESIGNATE CERTAIN SEPARATED MEMBERS OF THE AIR FORCE AS HONORARY SEPARATED MEMBERS OF THE SPACE FORCE
                  
                     Chapter 933 of title 10, United States Code, is amended by adding at the end the following new section:
                  
                     
                        9254.
                        AUTHORITY TO DESIGNATE CERTAIN SEPARATED MEMBERS OF THE AIR FORCE AS HONORARY SEPARATED MEMBERS OF THE SPACE FORCE
                        
                           (a)
                           Authority
                           The Secretary of the Air Force may prescribe regulations that authorize an eligible individual to be designated as an honorary separated member of the Space Force. An eligible individual so designated may be referred to as a Legacy Guardian.
                        
                        
                           (b)
                           Elements
                           Regulations prescribed under this section may include the following elements:
                           
                              (1)
                              Eligibility criteria, including applicable dates of service and constructive service credit, for designation under this section.
                           
                           
                              (2)
                              An application process through which an eligible individual, or a survivor of a deceased eligible individual, may apply for such designation of such eligible individual.
                           
                           
                              (3)
                              A certificate, approved device, or other insignia of such designation.
                           
                        
                        
                           (c)
                           Rule of construction
                           Designation of an eligible individual under this section shall not be construed to entitle such eligible individual to any benefit in addition to those established by this section or pursuant to regulations prescribed under this section.
                        
                        
                           (d)
                           Eligible individual defined
                           In this section, the term eligible individual means an individual—
                           
                              (1)
                              whom the Secretary of the Air Force determines served in support of space operations as a member of the Air Force; and
                           
                           
                              (2)
                              who separates (or previously separated) from the armed forces as a member of the Air Force.
                           
                        
                     
                     .
                  
               
               
                  523.
                  MERIT-BASED PRINCIPLES FOR MILITARY PERSONNEL DECISIONS IN THE DEPARTMENT OF DEFENSE
                  
                     (a)
                     In general
                     The Secretary of Defense shall ensure that each personnel decision regarding a covered member, including military accession, promotion, and command selection, is—
                     
                        (1)
                        based on the individual merit and demonstrated performance of the covered member;
                     
                     
                        (2)
                        without regard to the political affiliation, race, color, religion, national origin, sex, or marital status, of the covered member; and
                     
                     
                        (3)
                        with proper regard for the privacy and constitutional rights of the covered member.
                     
                  
                  
                     (b)
                     Additional protections
                     The Secretary shall protect a covered member against—
                     
                        (1)
                        arbitrary action, personal favoritism, and coercion for partisan political purposes; and
                     
                     
                        (2)
                        reprisal for the lawful disclosure of information by a covered member that the covered member reasonably believes to evince—
                        
                           (A)
                           a violation of any law, rule, or regulation; or
                        
                        
                           (B)
                           mismanagement, a gross waste of funds, or an abuse of authority.
                        
                     
                  
                  
                     (c)
                     Regulations
                     The Secretary of Defense shall prescribe new regulations to carry out this section not later than 90 days after the date of the enactment of this Act.
                  
                  
                     (d)
                     Covered member defined
                     In this section, the term covered member means—
                     
                        (1)
                        a member of the Army, Navy, Marine Corps, Air Force, or Space Force; or
                     
                     
                        (2)
                        an individual who has an active application to be a member described in paragraph (1).
                     
                  
               
               
                  524.
                  NEXT OF KIN OF DECEASED MEMBERS OF CERTAIN ARMED FORCES: DATABASE; PRIVACY
                  
                     (a)
                     Database
                     Not later than 180 days after the date of the enactment of this Act, the Secretary of Defense shall prescribe regulations that establish and maintain a database of the Department of Defense that contains up-to-date contact information for the next of kin of members of the covered Armed Forces. Such regulations shall ensure that—
                     
                        (1)
                        a commander in a grade higher than O-5 may access the contact information for the next of kin of a member who died while a member of the unit under the command of such commander, regardless of whether such member served under such commander; and
                     
                     
                        (2)
                        an individual named in such database may—
                        
                           (A)
                           elect to not be contacted by an officer described in paragraph (1); and
                        
                        
                           (B)
                           change such election at any time.
                        
                     
                  
                  
                     (b)
                     Privacy
                     Not later than 180 days after the date of the enactment of this Act, the Secretary of Defense shall ensure that the DD Form 93 (Record of Emergency Data) used in a covered Armed Force complies with the terms of section 552a of title 5, United States Code.
                  
                  
                     (c)
                     Covered Armed Force defined
                     In this section, the term covered Armed Force means the Army, Navy, Marine Corps, Air Force, or Space Force.
                  
               
               
                  525.
                  MARINE CORPS PERMEABILITY PILOT PROGRAM
                  
                     (a)
                     Authority
                     The Commandant of the Marine Corps (hereinafter Commandant) may carry out a pilot program under which a member may move between the active component and reserve components of the Marine Corps more easily, in accordance with the following:
                     
                        (1)
                        Up to 50 officers and 200 enlisted members of the regular component of the Marine Corps may be transferred to the Selected Reserve of the Marine Corps and returned to active duty at the end of the period of transfer under subsection (b).
                     
                     
                        (2)
                        An officer in a grade below O-6 who returns to active duty at the end of such period of transfer shall be reappointed as a regular officer by the President.
                     
                     
                        (3)
                        The Commandant may not approve a transfer under the pilot program after September 30, 2028.
                     
                  
                  
                     (b)
                     Period of transfer from active duty; effects of transfer
                     
                        (1)
                        Period of transfer
                        The period of transfer from active duty under a pilot program under this section shall be such period as the Commandant shall specify in the agreement of the member under subsection (c), except that such period may not exceed three years.
                     
                     
                        (2)
                        Years of service
                        Any service by a transferred reserve officer while participating in a pilot program under this section shall be included in computation of the total years of service of such officer pursuant to section 14706(a) of title 10, United States Code.
                     
                     
                        (3)
                        Retirement
                        Any period of participation of a transferred member in a program under this section shall count toward—
                        
                           (A)
                           eligibility for retirement or transfer to the Ready Reserve under chapter 841 or 1223 of title 10, United States Code; or
                        
                        
                           (B)
                           computation of retired or retainer pay under chapter 841 or 1223 of title 10, United States Code.
                        
                     
                  
                  
                     (c)
                     Agreement
                     Each member of the Marine Corps who participates in a pilot program under this section shall enter into a written agreement with the Commandant, under which the member shall agree to terms including the following:
                     
                        (1)
                        To undergo, during a period of transfer under subsection (b), such training as the Commandant shall require, including requirements under section 10147 of title 10, United States Code.
                     
                     
                        (2)
                        Following completion of a period of transfer under subsection (b), to serve up to two months as a member of the Marine Corps on active duty for each month of such period of transfer. Following completion of an initial period of transfer, a member may request a waiver of the period of obligated service under this paragraph. If the Commandant waives such period of obligated service, the member shall remain in the Selected Reserve, entitled to pay, allowances, and benefits of a member of the uniformed services in the grade and years of service of such member.
                     
                  
                  
                     (d)
                     Pay, allowances, and leave
                     
                        (1)
                        Basic pay; allowances other than travel and transportation allowances
                        During a period of transfer under subsection (b), a member shall receive any applicable pay or allowance other than a travel and transportation allowance under title 37, United States Code, for a reserve member of the uniformed services in the grade and years of service of the member.
                     
                     
                        (2)
                        Special or incentive pay
                        
                           (A)
                           Agreement to remain on active duty
                           A member who participates in a pilot program under this section shall not be determined to violate an existing agreement to remain on active duty relating to special or incentive pay under chapter 5 of title 37, United States Code, solely on the basis of such participation. The period of such agreement shall be suspended for the period of transfer under subsection (b), resume at the end of such period of transfer, and be in addition to any period of obligated service under subsection (c).
                        
                        
                           (B)
                           Expiration
                           If, at the end of a period of transfer under subsection (b), the special or incentive pay relating to an existing agreement to remain on active duty described in subparagraph (A) is no longer authorized by law, the member shall not be entitled to such special or incentive pay.
                        
                        
                           (C)
                           Repayment
                           A member who is ineligible for payment of a special or incentive pay described in subparagraph (B) shall be subject to the requirements for repayment of such pay or bonus in accordance with the terms of the applicable agreement of the member under chapter 5 of title 37, United States Code.
                        
                     
                     
                        (3)
                        Travel and transportation allowances
                        A member who participates in a pilot program under this section is entitled to travel and transportation allowances under section 452 of title 37, United States Code, to relocate—
                        
                           (A)
                           from the residence of the member at the beginning of a period of transfer under subsection (b), to the location in the United States designated by the member as the residence of such member during such period of transfer; and
                        
                        
                           (B)
                           from the residence designated under subparagraph (A) to the residence of the member after the end of such period of transfer.
                        
                     
                     
                        (4)
                        Leave
                        A member who participates in a pilot program is entitled to carry, in accordance with section 701 of title 10, United States Code, the leave accrued by such member until the day before the beginning of a period of transfer under subsection (b).
                     
                  
                  
                     (e)
                     Promotion
                     
                        (1)
                        Officers
                        An officer participating in a pilot program under this section may be eligible for consideration for promotion as a member of the reserve component in accordance with section 14005 and 14305 of title 10, United States Code, during the period of transfer under subsection (b). Upon the return of an officer to active duty after completion of a period transfer under subsection (b)—
                        
                           (A)
                           the Commandant may adjust the date of rank of the officer to a date as appropriate in accordance with the standards prescribed by the Secretary of Defense; and
                        
                        
                           (B)
                           the officer shall be eligible for consideration for promotion when officers of the same competitive category, grade, and seniority are eligible for consideration for promotion.
                        
                     
                     
                        (2)
                        Enlisted member
                        An enlisted member participating in a pilot program under this section may be eligible for consideration for promotion as a member of the reserve component during the period of transfer under subsection (b).
                     
                  
                  
                     (f)
                     Continued entitlements
                     A member participating in a pilot program under this section shall, while participating in the pilot program, be treated as a member of the Marine Corps on active duty for a period of more than 30 days for purposes of—
                     
                        (1)
                        the entitlement of the member and of the dependents of the member to medical and dental care under the provisions of chapter 55 of title 10, United States Code;
                     
                     
                        (2)
                        retirement or separation for physical disability under the provisions of chapters 55 and 61 of title 10, United States Code;
                     
                     
                        (3)
                        the entitlement of the member and of the survivors of the member to all death benefits under the provisions of chapter 75 of title 10, United States Code;
                     
                     
                        (4)
                        the provision of all travel and transportation allowances for the survivors of deceased members to attend burial ceremonies under section 453(f) of title 37, United States Code; and
                     
                     
                        (5)
                        the eligibility of the member for general benefits as provided in part II of title 38, United States Code.
                     
                  
                  
                     (g)
                     Regulations
                     Before carrying out a pilot program under this section, the Commandant shall prescribe regulations under this section. Such regulations shall include additional terms of an agreement under subsection (c), including instructions to a member regarding the obligations of a member during a period of transfer under subsection (b).
                  
                  
                     (h)
                     Order to active duty
                     Under regulations prescribed by the Commandant, a member of the Marine Corps participating in a pilot program under this section may, at the discretion of the Commandant, be required to terminate participation in the pilot program and return to active duty.
                  
               
               
                  526.
                  RESTORATION OF RETIRED RANK OF GENERAL JOHN D. LAVELLE
                  Not later than December 31, 2024, the Secretary of Defense shall issue a recommendation to the President and the Senate regarding the restoration of the retired rank of General John D. Lavelle based on recently declassified records and the most recent recommendation of the Air Force Board for Correction of Military Records.
               
               
                  527.
                  PROHIBITION OF REQUIREMENT IN THE DEPARTMENT OF DEFENSE TO WEAR A MASK TO STOP THE SPREAD OF COVID-19
                  The Secretary of Defense may not require an individual to wear a mask while on a military installation in the United States to prevent the spread of COVID-19.
               
               
                  528.
                  ELIMINATION OF OFFICES OF DIVERSITY, EQUITY, AND INCLUSION AND PERSONNEL OF SUCH OFFICES
                  Every office of the Armed Forces and of the Department of Defense established to promote diversity, equity, and inclusion is eliminated and the employment of all personnel of each such office is terminated.
               
               
                  529.
                  POSTHUMOUS COMMISSION AS CAPTAIN IN THE REGULAR ARMY FOR MILTON HOLLAND
                  
                     (a)
                     Posthumous commission
                     Milton Holland, who, while sergeant major of the 5th Regiment, United States Colored Infantry, was awarded the Medal of Honor in recognition of his action on September 29, 1864, during the Battle of Chapin’s Farm, Virginia, when, as the citation for the medal states, he took command of Company C, after all the officers had been killed or wounded, and gallantly led it, shall be deemed for all purposes to have held the grade of captain in the regular Army, effective as of that date and continuing until his separation from the Army.
                  
                  
                     (b)
                     Prohibition of benefits
                     Section 1523 of title 10, United States Code, applies in the case of the posthumous commission described in subsection (a).
                  
               
               
                  529A.
                  AUTHORIZATION OF MEMBERS AWARDED CERTAIN DECORATIONS TO WEAR THE UNIFORM WHEN NOT ON ACTIVE DUTY
                  Section 772 of title 10, United States Code, is amended by adding at the end the following new subsection:
                  
                     
                        (k)
                        
                           (1)
                           A member awarded a decoration specified in paragraph (2) may wear the uniform prescribed by the Secretary concerned on the same basis as a retired officer under subsection (c) while such member attends a special event (including a wedding).
                        
                        
                           (2)
                           The decorations specified in this paragraph are the following:
                           
                              (A)
                              The Purple Heart.
                           
                           
                              (B)
                              The Medal of Honor.
                           
                           
                              (C)
                              The Distinguished Service Cross.
                           
                           
                              (D)
                              The Navy Cross.
                           
                           
                              (E)
                              The Air Force Cross.
                           
                           
                              (F)
                              The Coast Guard Cross.
                           
                           
                              (G)
                              The Bronze Star.
                           
                        
                     
                     .
                  
               
               
                  529B.
                  REVIEW OF ADVERSE ACTION AGAINST A CHAPLAIN WHO REQUESTED EXEMPTION FROM THE COVID-19 VACCINATION MANDATE
                  
                     (a)
                     Review required
                     Not later than six months after the date of the enactment of this Act, the Secretary concerned shall establish a board under section 1552 or 1553 of title 10, United States Code, as applicable, to review the military personnel record, or the characterization of a discharge or dismissal, of a current or former chaplain in an Armed Force who suffered an adverse personnel action as a result of, arising from, or in conjunction with, requesting a religious exemption from the COVID-19 vaccination mandate.
                  
                  
                     (b)
                     Scope of review
                     A review under this section shall cover all adverse personnel actions against a chaplain on or after August 24, 2021.
                  
                  
                     (c)
                     Directed determination
                     A board established under this section shall consider any adverse personnel action against a chaplain to be the result of such request. unless there is evidence such chaplain—
                     
                        (1)
                        was disciplined for a reason other than a request described in subsection (a); or
                     
                     
                        (2)
                        breached good order and discipline.
                     
                  
                  
                     (d)
                     Priority
                     A board shall consider a request under this section before any other request on the docket of such board.
                  
                  
                     (e)
                     DODIG Report
                     No later than one year after enactment of this Act, the Inspector General of the Department of Defense shall submit to the congressional defense committees a report setting forth the results of an investigation by the Inspector General during that one-year period regarding the compliance of the Secretaries concerned with the terms of this section.
                  
                  
                     (f)
                     Definitions
                     In this section:
                     
                        (1)
                        The term adverse personnel action includes—
                        
                           (A)
                           discrimination; 
                        
                        
                           (B)
                           a denial of promotion, schooling, training, or assignment;
                        
                        
                           (C)
                           discharge;
                        
                        
                           (D)
                           dismissal;
                        
                        
                           (E)
                           separation; 
                        
                        
                           (F)
                           a lowered or noncompetitive performance report;
                        
                        
                           (G)
                           revocation of permanent change of station;
                        
                        
                           (H)
                           revocation of temporary duty travel orders; and
                        
                        
                           (I)
                           any other restriction or negative consequence.
                        
                     
                     
                        (2)
                        The term performance report means a report of an Armed Force (including an officer efficiency report)—
                        
                           (A)
                           that measures the efficiency, leadership, and effectiveness of an officer; and
                        
                        
                           (B)
                           is used as a basis for promotion selections.
                        
                     
                  
               
            
            
               D
               Recruitment
               
                  531.
                  SELECTIVE SERVICE SYSTEM: AUTOMATIC REGISTRATION
                  
                     (a)
                     Automatic registration
                     The Military Selective Service Act (50 U.S.C. 3801 et seq.) is amended by striking section 3 (50 U.S.C. 3802) and inserting the following new section 3:
                     
                        
                           3.
                           
                              (a)
                              
                                 (1)
                                 Except as otherwise provided in this title, every male citizen of the United States, and every other male person residing in the United States, between the ages of eighteen and twenty-six, shall be automatically registered under this Act by the Director of the Selective Service System.
                              
                              
                                 (2)
                                 This section shall not apply to any alien lawfully admitted to the United States as a nonimmigrant under section 101(a)(15) of the Immigration and Nationality Act (8 U.S.C. 1101) for so long as he continues to maintain a lawful nonimmigrant status in the United States.
                              
                           
                           
                              (b)
                              Regulations prescribed pursuant to this section (a) may require—
                              
                                 (1)
                                 a person subject to registration under this section to provide, to the Director, information (including date of birth, address, social security account number, phone number, and email address) regarding such person;
                              
                              
                                 (2)
                                 a Federal entity to provide, to the Director, information described in paragraph (1) that the Director determines necessary to identify or register a person subject to registration under this section; and
                              
                              
                                 (3)
                                 the Director to provide, to a person registered under this section, written notification that—
                                 
                                    (A)
                                    such person has been so registered; and
                                 
                                 
                                    (B)
                                    if such person is not required to be so registered, the procedure by which such person may correct such registration.
                                 
                              
                           
                        
                        .
                     
                  
                  
                     (b)
                     Technical and conforming amendments
                     The Military Selective Service Act is further amended—
                     
                        (1)
                        in section 4 (50 U.S.C. 3803)—
                        
                           (A)
                           in subsection (a)—
                           
                              (i)
                              by striking required to register each place it appears and inserting registered;
                           
                           
                              (ii)
                              by striking at the time fixed for his registration,; and
                           
                           
                              (iii)
                              by striking who is required to register and inserting registered;
                           
                        
                        
                           (B)
                           in subsection (k)(2), in the matter following subparagraph(B), by striking liable for registration and inserting registered;
                        
                     
                     
                        (2)
                        in section 6(a) (50 U.S.C. 3806(a))—
                        
                           (A)
                           in paragraph (1)—
                           
                              (i)
                              by striking required to be;
                           
                           
                              (ii)
                              by striking subject to registration and inserting registered; and
                           
                           
                              (iii)
                              by striking liable for registration and training and inserting registered and liable for training;
                           
                        
                        
                           (B)
                           in paragraph (2), by striking required to be each place it appears;
                        
                     
                     
                        (3)
                        in section 10(b)(3) (50 U.S.C. 3809(b)(3)) by striking registration,;
                     
                     
                        (4)
                        in section 12 (50 U.S.C. 3811)—
                        
                           (A)
                           in subsection (d)—
                           
                              (i)
                              by striking , neglecting, or refusing to perform the duty of registering imposed by and inserting registration under; and
                           
                           
                              (ii)
                              by striking , or within five years next after the last day before such person does perform his duty to register, whichever shall first occur;
                           
                        
                        
                           (B)
                           in subsection (e)—
                           
                              (i)
                              by striking the Secretary of Health and Human Services and inserting Federal agencies;
                           
                           
                              (ii)
                              by striking by a proclamation of the President and inserting to be registered;
                           
                           
                              (iii)
                              by striking to present themselves for and submit to registration under such section; and
                           
                           
                              (iv)
                              by striking by the Secretary; and
                           
                        
                        
                           (C)
                           by striking subsection (g) (50 U.S.C. 3811(g)); and
                        
                     
                     
                        (5)
                        in section 15(a) (50 U.S.C. 3813(a)), by striking upon publication by the President of a proclamation or other public notice fixing a time for any registration under section 3.
                     
                  
                  
                     (c)
                     Effective date
                     The amendments made by this section shall take effect one year after the date of the enactment of this Act.
                  
               
               
                  532.
                  PROHIBITION ON CANNABIS TESTING FOR ENLISTMENT OR COMMISSION IN CERTAIN ARMED FORCES
                  Subject to subsection (a) of section 504 of chapter 31 of title 10, United States Code, the Secretary of the military department concerned may not require an individual to submit to a test for cannabis as a condition of enlistment of such individual as a member, or the commission of such individual as an officer, of an Armed Force.
               
               
                  533.
                  REIMBURSEMENT OF APPLICANTS TO CERTAIN ARMED FORCES FOR CERTAIN MEDICAL COSTS INCURRED DURING MILITARY ENTRANCE PROCESSING
                  
                     (a)
                     Authority
                     The Secretary of Defense may reimburse an individual who applies to join a covered Armed Force for costs incurred by such individual for a medical appointment required for military entrance processing.
                  
                  
                     (b)
                     Maximum amount
                     The maximum amount an individual may be reimbursed under this section is $100.
                  
                  
                     (c)
                     Covered Armed Force defined
                     In this section, the term covered Armed Force means the Army, Navy, Marine Corps, Air Force, or Space Force.
                  
               
               
                  534.
                  MODERNIZATION OF RECRUITMENT FOR THE ARMY
                  
                     (a)
                     Modernization
                     Not later than September 30, 2025, the Secretary of the Army shall modernize recruitment for the Army in order to attract and retain fit and ready individuals to serve as members of the Army. To carry out such modernization, the Secretary shall take steps including the following:
                     
                        (1)
                        Establish a military occupational specialty for enlisted members who specialize in talent acquisition.
                     
                     
                        (2)
                        Establish a professional recruiting force of warrant officers who specialize in talent acquisition, data analytics, and other human resource functions necessary to develop expertise in recruiting and military accessions.
                     
                     
                        (3)
                        Routinely determining which areas of the United States yield greater-than-average numbers of recruits and, with regard to each such area—
                        
                           (A)
                           build relationships with sources of such recruits, including schools; and
                        
                        
                           (B)
                           assign additional recruiting personnel.
                        
                     
                     
                        (4)
                        Consider using a commercially available, off-the-shelf, recruiting platform.
                     
                  
                  
                     (b)
                     Briefings
                     Not later than the last day of each quarter of fiscal year 2025, the Secretary of the Army shall submit to the Committees on Armed Services of the Senate and House of Representatives a briefing on the implementation of this section. Each such briefing shall include the following:
                     
                        (1)
                        An up-to-date timeline, milestones, resources used, and resources needed for such implementation.
                     
                     
                        (2)
                        The number of enlisted members, officers, and civilian employees of the Army required to carry out this section.
                     
                     
                        (3)
                        Policies altered or prescribed by the Secretary to carry out this section and recruit a capable and ready all-volunteer force.
                     
                     
                        (4)
                        Related legislative recommendations of the Secretary.
                     
                  
               
               
                  535
                  RECRUITMENT STRATEGY FOR MEMBERS OF THE ARMED FORCES WHO WERE DISCHARGED OR DISMISSED ON THE SOLE BASIS OF FAILURE TO OBEY A LAWFUL ORDER TO RECEIVE A VACCINE FOR COVID-19
                  
                     (a)
                     Recruitment strategy required
                     Not later than six months after the date of the enactment of this Act, the Secretary of Defense, in coordination with the Secretaries of the military departments or, with respect the Coast Guard, the Secretary of the department in which the Secretary is operating when the Coast Guard is not operating as a service in the Navy, shall develop and implement a strategy to specifically recruit covered individuals to be reinstated in the Armed Force concerned.
                  
                  
                     (b)
                     Covered individual defined
                     In this section, the term covered individual means an individual discharged or dismissed from an Armed Force on the sole basis of failure to obey a lawful order to receive a vaccine for COVID-19.
                  
               
               
                  536.
                  PROGRAM OF MILITARY RECRUITMENT AND EDUCATION AT THE NATIONAL SEPTEMBER 11 MEMORIAL AND MUSEUM
                  
                     (a)
                     Authority
                     Not later than September 30, 2025, the Secretary of Defense shall seek to enter into an agreement with the entity that operates the National September 11 Memorial and Museum (in this section referred to as the Museum) under which the Secretary and such entity shall carry out a program at the Museum to promote military recruitment and education.
                  
                  
                     (b)
                     Program
                     A program under subsection (a) shall include the following:
                     
                        (1)
                        Provision of informational materials to promote enlistment in the covered Armed Forces, by the Secretary to such entity, for distribution at the Museum.
                     
                     
                        (2)
                        Education and exhibits, developed jointly by the Secretary and such entity, and provided to the public by employees of the Museum, to—
                        
                           (A)
                           enhance understanding of the military response to the attacks on September 11, 2001; and
                        
                        
                           (B)
                           encourage enlistment and re-enlistment in the covered Armed Forces.
                        
                     
                  
                  
                     (c)
                     Covered Armed Force defined
                     In this section, the term covered Armed Force means the Army, Navy, Marine Corps, Air Force, or Space Force.
                  
               
               
                  537.
                  MILITARY RECRUITER PHYSICAL ACCESS TO CAMPUSES
                  
                     (a)
                     In general
                     Subpart 2 of Part F of title VIII of the Elementary and Secondary Education Act of 1965 (20 U.S.C. 7901 et seq.) is amended by inserting after section 8528 the following:
                     
                        
                           8528A.
                           MILITARY RECRUITER ACCESS TO SECONDARY SCHOOL CAMPUSES
                           Each local educational agency receiving assistance under this Act shall provide military recruiters the same access to the campus of each secondary school served by the local educational agency for the purpose of recruiting students who are at least 17 years of age that is provided to any prospective employer, institution of higher education, or other recruiter.
                        
                        .
                     
                  
                  
                     (b)
                     Effective date
                     The amendment made by subsection (a) shall take effect one year after the date of the enactment of this Act.
                  
                  
                     (c)
                     Compliance monitoring and reporting
                     On an annual basis, the Secretary of Defense shall—
                     
                        (1)
                        collect information from military recruiters regarding the compliance of local educational agencies with the requirements of section 8528A of the Elementary and Secondary Education Act of 1965 (as added by subsection (a)); and
                     
                     
                        (2)
                        based on such information, prepare and submit to the Secretary of Education a report that— 
                        
                           (A)
                           identifies each local educational agency that the Secretary of Defense determines to be in violation of such section; and
                        
                        
                           (B)
                           explains the reasons for such determination.
                        
                     
                  
               
               
                  538.
                  IMPROVING OVERSIGHT OF MILITARY RECRUITMENT PRACTICES IN PUBLIC SECONDARY SCHOOLS
                  The Secretary of Defense shall submit to the congressional defense committees an annual report on military recruitment practices in public secondary schools during calendar year 2024 and each subsequent calendar year. Each such report shall include, for the year covered by the report—
                  
                     (1)
                     the zip codes of public secondary schools visited by military recruiters;
                  
                  
                     (2)
                     the number of recruits from public secondary schools by zip code and local education agency; and
                  
                  
                     (3)
                     a demographic analysis, including race, ethnicity, and gender, of recruits from public secondary schools by zip code.
                  
               
               
                  539.
                  EXPANSION OF REPORT ON FUTURE SERVICEMEMBER PREPARATORY COURSE
                  Section 546(d) of the National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2024 (Public Law 118–31; 10 U.S.C. 520 note) is amended—
                  
                     (1)
                     by redesignating paragraph (4) as paragraph (6); and
                  
                  
                     (2)
                     by inserting, after paragraph (3), the following new paragraphs:
                     
                        
                           (4)
                           The determination of the Secretary regarding the effectiveness of the preparatory course.
                        
                        
                           (5)
                           Recommendations of the Secretary regarding—
                           
                              (A)
                              how to improve the preparatory course;
                           
                           
                              (B)
                              whether to expand the preparatory course. 
                           
                        
                        .
                     
                  
               
            
            
               E
               Member Training and Education
               
                  541.
                  INCREASE TO MAXIMUM FUNDING FOR THE REGIONAL DEFENSE FELLOWSHIP PROGRAM
                  Section 345(d) of title 10, United States Code, is amended by striking $35,000,000 and inserting $50,000,000.
               
               
                  542.
                  EXPANSION OF INTERNATIONAL ENGAGEMENT AUTHORITIES FOR SERVICE ACADEMIES
                  Section 347 of title 10, United States Code, is amended, in subsection (a)(1)(B), by striking 60 and inserting 80.
               
               
                  543.
                  REDUCTION TO MINIMUM NUMBER OF PARTICIPATING STUDENTS REQUIRED TO ESTABLISH OR MAINTAIN A UNIT OF JROTC
                  Section 2031(b)(1)(A) of title 10, United States Code, is amended by striking 100 and inserting 50.
               
               
                  544.
                  NUMBER OF FOREIGN MILITARY MEDICAL STUDENTS WHO MAY ATTEND UNIFORMED SERVICES UNIVERSITY OF THE HEALTH SCIENCES UNDER AN EXCHANGE PROGRAM
                  Section 2114(f)(2) of title 10, United States Code, is amended by striking 40 persons and inserting 50 persons.
               
               
                  545.
                  PROFESSIONAL MILITARY EDUCATION: TECHNICAL CORRECTION TO DEFINITIONS
                  Section 2151 of title 10, United States Code, is amended, in subsection (b)(3), by striking National Defense Intelligence College and inserting National Intelligence University.
               
               
                  546.
                  AUTHORITY TO ACCEPT GIFTS OF SERVICES FOR PROFESSIONAL MILITARY EDUCATION INSTITUTIONS
                  Section 2601(a)(2)(A) of title 10, United States Code, is amended by inserting or a professional military education institution after museum program each place it appears. 
               
               
                  547.
                  SERVICE ACADEMIES: APPOINTMENTS AND ADDITIONAL APPOINTEES
                  
                     (a)
                     United States Military Academy
                     
                        (1)
                        Appointments
                        Section 7442 of title 10, United States Code, is amended—
                        
                           (A)
                           in subsection (a)—
                           
                              (i)
                              by striking subsection (j) and inserting subsection (k);
                           
                           
                              (ii)
                              in paragraph (1), by striking as established by competitive examinations and inserting as determined by candidate composite score rank; and
                           
                           
                              (iii)
                              in the matter following paragraph (10)—
                              
                                 (I)
                                 in the second sentence, by inserting (in which event selection shall be in order of merit as determined by candidate composite score rank) after without ranking; and
                              
                              
                                 (II)
                                 in the third sentence, by inserting , including qualified alternates and additional appointees before the period at the end;
                              
                           
                        
                        
                           (B)
                           by redesignating subsections (b) through (j) as subsections (c) through (k), respectively;
                        
                        
                           (C)
                           by inserting after subsection (a) the following new subsection:
                           
                              
                                 (b)
                                 There shall be appointed each year at the Academy 275 cadets selected in order of merit as determined by candidate composite score rank by the Secretary of the Army from qualified alternates nominated pursuant to paragraphs (3) through (10) of subsection (a) and all other qualified, non-selected candidates holding nominations from any other source pursuant to this chapter.
                              
                              ;
                           
                        
                        
                           (D)
                           in subsection (c), as redesignated by subparagraph (B)—
                           
                              (i)
                              in paragraph (1), by striking one hundred selected by the President and inserting up to one hundred selected by the President in order of merit as determined by candidate composite score rank;
                           
                           
                              (ii)
                              in paragraph (2)—
                              
                                 (I)
                                 by inserting up to before 85 nominated; and
                              
                              
                                 (II)
                                 by inserting , selected in order of merit as determined by candidate composite score rank before the period at the end;
                              
                           
                           
                              (iii)
                              in paragraph (3)—
                              
                                 (I)
                                 by inserting up to before 85 nominated; and
                              
                              
                                 (II)
                                 by inserting , selected in order of merit as determined by candidate composite score rank before the period at the end;
                              
                           
                           
                              (iv)
                              in paragraph (4)—
                              
                                 (I)
                                 by inserting up to before 20 nominated; and
                              
                              
                                 (II)
                                 by inserting , selected in order of merit as determined by candidate composite score rank before the period at the end; and
                              
                           
                           
                              (v)
                              by striking paragraph (5);
                           
                        
                        
                           (E)
                           in subsection (f), as redesignated by subparagraph (B), by striking subsection (b) and inserting subsection (c);
                        
                        
                           (F)
                           in subsection (h), as so redesignated—
                           
                              (i)
                              by striking subsection (b) each place it appears and inserting subsection (c); and
                           
                           
                              (ii)
                              in paragraph (4), by striking subsection (e) and inserting subsection (f); and
                           
                        
                        
                           (G)
                           by adding at the end the following new subsections:
                           
                              
                                 (l)
                                 Qualifications of candidates for admission shall be determined by use of, among others, a candidate composite score uniformly calculated for each applicant. Components of such composite score shall include the candidate’s standardized test scores, weighted at not less than 30 percent of the overall composite score. Any subjective component of such composite score shall be weighted at not more than 10 percent of the overall composite score. Candidates’ composite scores shall be used to determine order of merit. Race and ethnicity shall not be considered in any component of the candidate composite score, evaluation of candidates or selection for appointment.
                              
                              
                                 (m)
                                 Not later than October 1 of each year, the Secretary of the Army shall submit to the Committees on Armed Services of the Senate and the House of Representatives a report including—
                                 
                                    (1)
                                    with respect to the preceding admissions cycle—
                                    
                                       (A)
                                       the established minimum candidate composite score and college entrance examination rank (CEER) score used in such cycle; and
                                    
                                    
                                       (B)
                                       the total number of waivers of such minimum candidate composite score, including the candidate composite score and CEER score of each cadet to whom the waiver relates, a brief explanation of the reasons for such waiver, and the category of appointment under which each such cadet was appointed (and if congressional, the type of slate that nominated the waived appointee); and
                                    
                                 
                                 
                                    (2)
                                    for each cadet who, during the four-year period preceding the date of the report, received a waiver for the established minimum candidate composite score, the status of each such cadet, including whether the cadet still at the Academy, the circumstances of such cadet’s departure (if applicable), the cumulative academic GPA, cumulative military GPA, any major conduct or honor violations, any remedial measures undertaken, and any other noteworthy information concerning such cadet.
                                 
                              
                              .
                           
                        
                     
                     
                        (2)
                        Additional appointees
                        Section 7443 of title 10, United States Code, is amended—
                        
                           (A)
                           in the section heading, by striking 
                                 appointment
                               and inserting 
                                 additional appointments
                              ;
                        
                        
                           (B)
                           in the first sentence—
                           
                              (i)
                              by inserting (a) before If it is determined; and
                           
                           
                              (ii)
                              by striking from other qualified candidates who competed for nomination and inserting from other qualified candidates who hold a nomination;
                           
                        
                        
                           (C)
                           in the second sentence, by striking (8) and inserting (10);
                        
                        
                           (D)
                           by inserting after the second sentence the following: Subject to the preceding sentence, the first 100 such vacancies shall be filled with candidates who are selected in order of merit as determined by candidate composite score rank (as described in section 7442 of this title), after which all remaining vacancies may be filled with candidates who are selected out of merit rank order.; and
                        
                        
                           (E)
                           by adding at the end the following:
                           
                              
                                 (b)
                                 Not later than October 1 of each year, the Secretary of the Army shall submit to the congressional defense committees a report that includes, with respect to the preceding admissions cycle—
                                 
                                    (1)
                                    the composite scores and college entrance examination rank scores of the ten candidates nominated under this section with the lowest combined scores that were selected;
                                 
                                 
                                    (2)
                                    the total number of qualified and not selected candidates nominated under this section; and
                                 
                                 
                                    (3)
                                    the composite scores and college entrance examination rank scores of the ten candidates nominated under this section with the highest combined scores that were qualified and not selected.
                                 
                              
                              .
                           
                        
                     
                  
                  
                     (b)
                     United States Naval Academy
                     
                        (1)
                        Appointments
                        Section 8454 of title 10, United States Code, is amended—
                        
                           (A)
                           in subsection (a)—
                           
                              (i)
                              by striking subsection (h) and inserting subsection (i);
                           
                           
                              (ii)
                              in paragraph (1), by striking as established by competitive examination and inserting as determined by candidate composite score rank; and
                           
                           
                              (iii)
                              in the matter following paragraph (10)—
                              
                                 (I)
                                 in the second sentence, by inserting (in which event selection shall be in order of merit as determined by candidate composite score rank) after without ranking; and
                              
                              
                                 (II)
                                 in the third sentence, by inserting , including qualified alternates and additional appointees before the period at the end;
                              
                           
                        
                        
                           (B)
                           by redesignating subsections (b) through (h) as subsections (c) through (i), respectively;
                        
                        
                           (C)
                           by inserting after subsection (a) the following new subsection:
                           
                              
                                 (b)
                                 There shall be appointed each year at the Academy 275 midshipmen selected in order of merit as determined by candidate composite score rank by the Secretary of the Navy from qualified alternates nominated pursuant to paragraphs (3) through (10) of subsection (a) and all other qualified, non-selected candidates holding nominations from any other source pursuant to this chapter.
                              
                              ;
                           
                        
                        
                           (D)
                           in subsection (c), as redesignated by subparagraph (B)—
                           
                              (i)
                              in paragraph (1), by striking one hundred selected by the President and inserting up to one hundred selected by the President in order of merit as determined by candidate composite score rank;
                           
                           
                              (ii)
                              in paragraph (2)—
                              
                                 (I)
                                 by inserting up to before 85 nominated; and
                              
                              
                                 (II)
                                 by inserting , selected in order of merit as determined by candidate composite score rank before the period at the end;
                              
                           
                           
                              (iii)
                              in paragraph (3)—
                              
                                 (I)
                                 by inserting up to before 85 nominated; and
                              
                              
                                 (II)
                                 by inserting , selected in order of merit as determined by candidate composite score rank before the period at the end;
                              
                           
                           
                              (iv)
                              in paragraph (4)—
                              
                                 (I)
                                 by inserting up to before 20 nominated; and
                              
                              
                                 (II)
                                 by inserting , selected in order of merit as determined by candidate composite score rank before the period at the end; and
                              
                           
                           
                              (v)
                              by striking paragraph (5);
                           
                        
                        
                           (E)
                           in subsection (f), as redesignated by subparagraph (B), by striking subsection (b) and inserting subsection (c) both places it appears; and
                        
                        
                           (F)
                           by adding at the end the following new subsections:
                           
                              
                                 (j)
                                 Qualifications of candidates for admission shall be determined by use of, among others, a candidate composite score uniformly calculated for each applicant. Components of such composite score shall include the candidate’s standardized test scores, weighted at not less than 30 percent of the overall composite score. Any subjective component of such composite score shall be weighted at not more than 10 percent of the overall composite score. Candidates’ composite scores shall be used to determine order of merit. Race and ethnicity shall not be considered in any component of the candidate composite score, evaluation of candidates, or selection for appointment.
                              
                              
                                 (k)
                                 Not later than October 1 of each year, the Secretary of the Navy shall submit to the Committees on Armed Services of the Senate and the House of Representatives a report including—
                                 
                                    (1)
                                    with respect to the preceding admissions cycle—
                                    
                                       (A)
                                       the established minimum candidate composite score and college entrance examination rank (CEER) score used in such cycle; and
                                    
                                    
                                       (B)
                                       the total number of waivers of such minimum candidate composite score, including the candidate composite score and CEER score of each midshipman to whom the waiver relates, a brief explanation of the reasons for such waiver, and the category of appointment under which each such midshipman was appointed (and if congressional, the type of slate that nominated the waived appointee); and
                                    
                                 
                                 
                                    (2)
                                    for each midshipman who, during the four-year period preceding the date of the report, received a waiver for the established minimum candidate composite score, the status of each such midshipman, including whether the midshipman is still at the Academy, the circumstances of such midshipman’s departure (if applicable), the cumulative academic GPA, cumulative military GPA, any major conduct or honor violations, any remedial measures undertaken, and any other noteworthy information concerning such midshipman.
                                 
                              
                              .
                           
                        
                     
                     
                        (2)
                        Additional appointees
                        Section 8456 of title 10, United States Code, is amended—
                        
                           (A)
                           in the section heading, by inserting 
                                 additional appointments
                               after 
                                 Midshipmen
                              ;
                        
                        
                           (B)
                           in subsection (b)—
                           
                              (i)
                              in the first sentence, by striking from other qualified candidates who competed for nomination and inserting from other qualified candidates who hold a nomination;
                           
                           
                              (ii)
                              in the second sentence, by striking (8) and inserting (10); and
                           
                           
                              (iii)
                              by inserting after the second sentence the following: Subject to the preceding sentence, the first 100 such vacancies shall be filled with candidates who are selected in order of merit as determined by candidate composite score rank (as described in section 8454 of this title), after which all remaining vacancies may be filled with candidates who are selected out of merit rank order.; and
                           
                        
                        
                           (C)
                           by adding at the end the following:
                           
                              
                                 (c)
                                 Not later than October 1 of each year, the Secretary of the Navy shall submit to the congressional defense committees a report that includes, with respect to the preceding admissions cycle—
                                 
                                    (1)
                                    the composite scores and college entrance examination rank scores of the ten candidates nominated under this section with the lowest combined scores that were selected;
                                 
                                 
                                    (2)
                                    the total number of qualified and not selected candidates nominated under this section; and
                                 
                                 
                                    (3)
                                    the composite scores and college entrance examination rank scores of the ten candidates nominated under this section with the highest combined scores that were qualified and not selected.
                                 
                              
                              .
                           
                        
                     
                  
                  
                     (c)
                     United States Air Force Academy
                     
                        (1)
                        Appointments
                        Section 9442 of title 10, United States Code, is amended—
                        
                           (A)
                           in subsection (a)—
                           
                              (i)
                              by striking subsection (j) and inserting subsection (k);
                           
                           
                              (ii)
                              in paragraph (1), by striking as established by competitive examination and inserting as determined by candidate composite score rank; and
                           
                           
                              (iii)
                              in the matter following paragraph (10)—
                              
                                 (I)
                                 in the second sentence, by inserting (in which event selection shall be in order of merit as determined by candidate composite score rank) after without ranking; and
                              
                              
                                 (II)
                                 in the third sentence, by inserting , including qualified alternates and additional appointees before the period at the end;
                              
                           
                        
                        
                           (B)
                           by redesignating subsections (b) through (j) as subsections (c) through (k), respectively;
                        
                        
                           (C)
                           by inserting after subsection (a) the following new subsection:
                           
                              
                                 (b)
                                 There shall be appointed each year at the Academy 275 cadets selected in order of merit as determined by candidate composite score rank by the Secretary of the Air Force from qualified alternates nominated pursuant to paragraphs (3) through (10) of subsection (a) and all other qualified, non-selected candidates holding nominations from any other source pursuant to this chapter.
                              
                              ;
                           
                        
                        
                           (D)
                           in subsection (c), as redesignated by subparagraph (B)—
                           
                              (i)
                              in paragraph (1), by striking one hundred selected by the President and inserting up to one hundred selected by the President in order of merit as determined by candidate composite score rank;
                           
                           
                              (ii)
                              in paragraph (2)—
                              
                                 (I)
                                 by inserting up to before 85 nominated; and
                              
                              
                                 (II)
                                 by inserting , selected in order of merit as determined by candidate composite score rank before the period at the end;
                              
                           
                           
                              (iii)
                              in paragraph (3)—
                              
                                 (I)
                                 by inserting up to before 85 nominated; and
                              
                              
                                 (II)
                                 by inserting , selected in order of merit as determined by candidate composite score rank before the period at the end;
                              
                           
                           
                              (iv)
                              in paragraph (4)—
                              
                                 (I)
                                 by inserting up to before 20 nominated; and
                              
                              
                                 (II)
                                 by inserting , selected in order of merit as determined by candidate composite score rank before the period at the end; and
                              
                           
                           
                              (v)
                              by striking paragraph (5);
                           
                        
                        
                           (E)
                           in subsection (f), as redesignated by subparagraph (B), by striking subsection (b) and inserting subsection (c);
                        
                        
                           (F)
                           in subsection (h), as so redesignated—
                           
                              (i)
                              by striking subsection (b) each place it appears and inserting subsection (c); and
                           
                           
                              (ii)
                              in paragraph (4), by striking subsection (e) and inserting subsection (f); and
                           
                        
                        
                           (G)
                           by adding at the end the following new subsections:
                           
                              
                                 (l)
                                 Qualifications of candidates for admission shall be determined by use of, among others, a candidate composite score uniformly calculated for each applicant. Components of such composite score shall include the candidate’s standardized test scores, weighted at not less than 30 percent of the overall composite score. Any subjective component of such composite score shall be weighted at not more than 10 percent of the overall composite score. Candidates’ composite scores shall be used to determine order of merit rank order. Race and ethnicity shall not be considered in any component of the candidate composite score, evaluation of candidates, or selection for appointment.
                              
                              
                                 (m)
                                 Not later than October 1 of each year, the Secretary of the Air Force shall submit to the Committees on Armed Services of the Senate and the House of Representatives a report including—
                                 
                                    (1)
                                    with respect to the preceding admissions cycle—
                                    
                                       (A)
                                       the established minimum candidate composite score and college entrance examination rank (CEER) score used in such cycle; and
                                    
                                    
                                       (B)
                                       the total number of waivers of such minimum candidate composite score, including the candidate composite score and CEER score of each cadet to whom the waiver relates, a brief explanation of the reasons for such waiver, and the category of appointment under which each such cadet was appointed (and if congressional, the type of slate that nominated the waived appointee); and
                                    
                                 
                                 
                                    (2)
                                    for each cadet who, during the four-year period preceding the date of the report, received a waiver for the established minimum candidate composite score, the status of each such cadet, including whether the cadet still at the Academy, the circumstances of such cadet’s departure (if applicable), the cumulative academic GPA, cumulative military GPA, any major conduct or honor violations, any remedial measures undertaken, and any other noteworthy information concerning such cadet.
                                 
                              
                              .
                           
                        
                     
                     
                        (2)
                        Additional appointees
                        Section 9443 of title 10, United States Code, is amended—
                        
                           (A)
                           in the section heading, by striking 
                                 appointment
                               and inserting 
                                 additional appointments
                              ;
                        
                        
                           (B)
                           in the first sentence—
                           
                              (i)
                              by inserting (a) before If it is determined; and
                           
                           
                              (ii)
                              by striking from other qualified candidates who competed for nomination and inserting from other qualified candidates who hold a nomination;
                           
                        
                        
                           (C)
                           in the second sentence, by striking (8) and inserting (10);
                        
                        
                           (D)
                           by inserting after the second sentence the following: Subject to the preceding sentence, the first 100 such vacancies shall be filled with candidates who are selected in order of merit as determined by candidate composite score rank (as described in section 9442 of this title), after which all remaining vacancies may be filled with candidates who are selected out of merit rank order.; and
                        
                        
                           (E)
                           by adding at the end the following:
                           
                              
                                 (b)
                                 Not later than October 1 of each year, the Secretary of the Navy shall submit to the congressional defense committees a report that includes, with respect to the preceding admissions cycle—
                                 
                                    (1)
                                    the composite scores and college entrance examination rank scores of the ten candidates nominated under this section with the lowest combined scores that were selected;
                                 
                                 
                                    (2)
                                    the total number of qualified and not selected candidates nominated under this section; and
                                 
                                 
                                    (3)
                                    the composite scores and college entrance examination rank scores of the ten candidates nominated under this section with the highest combined scores that were qualified and not selected.
                                 
                              
                              .
                           
                        
                     
                  
               
               
                  548.
                  ALTERNATIVE SERVICE OBLIGATION FOR A CADET OR MIDSHIPMAN WHO BECOMES A PROFESSIONAL ATHLETE
                  
                     (a)
                     United States Military Academy
                     Section 7448 of title 10, United States Code, is amended as follows:
                     
                        (1)
                        Paragraph (5) of subsection (a) is amended to read as follows: That if the cadet obtains employment as a professional athlete before completing the commissioned service obligation of such cadet, the cadet shall be subject to the alternative obligation under subsection (b)(4).
                        
                     
                     
                        (2)
                        Subsection (b) is amended—
                        
                           (A)
                           in paragraph (1), by striking The Secretary of the Army and inserting Subject to paragraph (4), the Secretary of the Army; and
                        
                        
                           (B)
                           by striking paragraph (4) and inserting the following:
                           
                              
                                 (4)
                                 The Secretary of the Army may transfer a cadet who violates paragraph (5) of subsection (a) to the Selected Reserve of the Army—
                                 
                                    (A)
                                    as a commissioned officer in an appropriate grade or rating, as determined by the Secretary of the Army; and
                                 
                                 
                                    (B)
                                    for a period not to exceed 10 years.
                                 
                              
                              .
                           
                        
                     
                     
                        (3)
                        Paragraph (2) of subsection (c) is amended to read as follows:
                        
                           
                              (2)
                              that a cadet transferred under subsection (b)(4) shall, as part of the alternative obligation under such subsection, participate in efforts to recruit and retain members of the Army.
                           
                           .
                        
                     
                     
                        (4)
                        Subsection (f) is amended by striking the alternative obligation and inserting an alternative obligation.
                     
                  
                  
                     (b)
                     United States Naval Academy
                     Section 8459 of title 10, United States Code, is amended as follows:
                     
                        (1)
                        Paragraph (5) of subsection (a) is amended to read as follows: That if the midshipman obtains employment as a professional athlete before completing the commissioned service obligation of such cadet, the midshipman shall be subject to the alternative obligation under subsection (b)(4).
                        
                     
                     
                        (2)
                        Subsection (b) is amended—
                        
                           (A)
                           in paragraph (1), by striking The Secretary of the Navy and inserting Subject to paragraph (4), the Secretary of the Navy; and
                        
                        
                           (B)
                           by striking paragraph (4) and inserting the following:
                           
                              
                                 (4)
                                 The Secretary of the Navy may transfer a midshipman who violates paragraph (5) of subsection (a) to the Selected Reserve of the Navy or the Marine Corps—
                                 
                                    (A)
                                    as a commissioned officer in an appropriate grade or rating, as determined by the Secretary of the Navy; and
                                 
                                 
                                    (B)
                                    for a period not to exceed 10 years.
                                 
                              
                              .
                           
                        
                     
                     
                        (3)
                        Paragraph (2) of subsection (c) is amended to read as follows:
                        
                           
                              (2)
                              that a midshipman transferred under subsection (b)(4) shall, as part of the alternative obligation under such subsection, participate in efforts to recruit and retain members of the Navy and Marine Corps.
                           
                           .
                        
                     
                     
                        (4)
                        Subsection (f) is amended by striking the alternative obligation and inserting an alternative obligation.
                     
                  
                  
                     (c)
                     United States Air Force Academy
                     Section 9448 of title 10, United States Code, is amended as follows:
                     
                        (1)
                        Paragraph (5) of subsection (a) is amended to read as follows: That if the cadet obtains employment as a professional athlete before completing the commissioned service obligation of such cadet, the cadet shall be subject to the alternative obligation under subsection (b)(4).
                        
                     
                     
                        (2)
                        Subsection (b) is amended—
                        
                           (A)
                           in paragraph (1), by striking The Secretary of the Air Force and inserting Subject to paragraph (4), the Secretary of the Air Force; and
                        
                        
                           (B)
                           by striking paragraph (4) and inserting the following:
                           
                              
                                 (4)
                                 The Secretary of the Army may transfer a cadet who violates paragraph (5) of subsection (a) to the Selected Reserve of the Air Force or Space Force—
                                 
                                    (A)
                                    as a commissioned officer in an appropriate grade or rating, as determined by the Secretary of the Air Force; and
                                 
                                 
                                    (B)
                                    for a period not to exceed 10 years.
                                 
                              
                              .
                           
                        
                     
                     
                        (3)
                        Paragraph (2) of subsection (c) is amended to read as follows:
                        
                           
                              (2)
                              that a cadet transferred under subsection (b)(4) shall, as part of the alternative obligation under such subsection, participate in efforts to recruit and retain members of the Air Force and Space Force.
                           
                           .
                        
                     
                     
                        (4)
                        Subsection (f) is amended by striking the alternative obligation and inserting an alternative obligation.
                     
                  
               
               
                  549.
                  SERVICE ACADEMIES: BOARDS OF VISITORS
                  
                     (a)
                     United States Military Academy
                     
                        (1)
                        Membership
                        Section 7455 of title 10, United States Code, is amended, in subsection (a)—
                        
                           (A)
                           in paragraph (2), by striking Vice President or the President pro tempore of the Senate, two of whom are members of the Committee on Appropriations of the Senate and inserting Majority Leader of the Senate (one of whom shall be a member of the Committee on Appropriations of the Senate) and three other members designated by the Minority Leader of the Senate (one of whom shall be a member of the Committee on Appropriations of the Senate);
                        
                        
                           (B)
                           in paragraph (4), striking , two of whom are members of the Committee on Appropriations of the House of Representatives and inserting (one of whom shall be a member of the Committee on Appropriations of the House of Representatives) and three other members designated by the Minority Leader of the House of Representatives (one of whom shall be a member of the Committee on Appropriations of the House of Representatives);
                        
                        
                           (C)
                           by striking paragraph (5);
                        
                        
                           (D)
                           by redesignating paragraphs (1) through (4) as subparagraphs (A) through (D), respectively;
                        
                        
                           (E)
                           by inserting 
                                 (1)
                               before A Board; and
                        
                        
                           (F)
                           by adding at the end the following new paragraph:
                           
                              
                                 (2)
                                 At least one member designated by each Member of Congress specified in subparagraph (B) or (D) shall be a graduate of the Academy.
                              
                              .
                           
                        
                     
                     
                        (2)
                        Terms; replacements
                        Such section is further amended, in subsection (b)—
                        
                           (A)
                           by striking designated by the President and inserting designated under subsection (a);
                        
                        
                           (B)
                           by striking appointed by the President and inserting appointed under subsection (a); and
                        
                        
                           (C)
                           by striking the second sentence.
                        
                     
                     
                        (3)
                        Termination
                        Such section is further amended, in subsection (c)—
                        
                           (A)
                           by inserting 
                                 (1)
                               before If;
                        
                        
                           (B)
                           by inserting or is terminated under paragraph (2) after resigns; and
                        
                        
                           (C)
                           by adding at the end the following new paragraph:
                           
                              
                                 (2)
                                 
                                    (A)
                                    If a member of the Board designated under subsection (a) fails to attend two consecutive meetings of the Board, unless such absence is approved in advance and for good cause by the Board chairman, shall be subject to termination from the Board.
                                 
                                 
                                    (B)
                                    A member of the Board who is not a Member of Congress may be made terminated only by the chairman of the Board, as determined by the chairman.
                                 
                                 
                                    (C)
                                    A member of the Board who is a Member of Congress may be made terminated only by the official who designated such member, as determined by such official.
                                 
                                 
                                    (D)
                                    A member designated under subsection (a) shall be provided notice of the provisions of this paragraph at the time of such designation.
                                 
                              
                              .
                           
                        
                     
                     
                        (4)
                        Visits
                        Such section is further amended, in subsection (d)—
                        
                           (A)
                           by inserting twice before annually;
                        
                        
                           (B)
                           by striking With the approval and inserting After consultation with; and
                        
                        
                           (C)
                           by inserting or other personnel after Superintendent.
                        
                     
                     
                        (5)
                        Duties
                        Such section is further amended, in subsection (e)—
                        
                           (A)
                           by inserting , and make recommendations regarding, after inquire into; and
                        
                        
                           (B)
                           by adding In accordance with any applicable law regarding the disclosure of information, the Superintendent shall provide information the Board requests. at the end.
                        
                     
                     
                        (6)
                        Reports
                        Such section is further amended, in subsection (f)—
                        
                           (A)
                           by striking its annual and inserting a;
                        
                        
                           (B)
                           by striking report to the President and inserting report to the Secretary of Defense and the Committees on Armed Services of the Senate and House of Representatives;
                        
                        
                           (C)
                           by striking submitted to the President and inserting submitted;
                        
                        
                           (D)
                           by inserting 
                                 (1)
                               before Within; and
                        
                        
                           (E)
                           by adding at the end the following new paragraph:
                           
                              
                                 (2)
                                 The Board shall publish a report under paragraph (1) on the same day it submits such a report.
                              
                              
                                 (3)
                                 A member of the Board or a minority of the Board may elect to submit a report to the recipients under paragraph (1).
                              
                              .
                           
                        
                     
                     
                        (7)
                        Advisers
                        Such section is further amended, in subsection (g), by striking Upon approval by the Secretary, the  and inserting The.
                     
                     
                        (8)
                        Procedure
                        Such section is further amended by adding at the end the following new subsections:
                        
                           
                              (j)
                              Subject to subsections (a) through (d) of section 1009 of title 5, the Board shall adopt rules and procedures.
                           
                           
                              (k)
                              The Chairman shall be elected by the members of the Board to serve a one-year term.
                           
                           .
                        
                     
                  
                  
                     (b)
                     United States Naval Academy
                     Section 8468 of such title is amended to read identically to 7455 of such title, as amended by subsection (a).
                  
                  
                     (c)
                     United States Air Force Academy
                     Section 9455 of such title is amended to read identically to 7455 of such title, as amended by subsection (a).
                  
               
               
                  549A.
                  INCLUSION OF CERTAIN INFORMATION IN ANNUAL MILITARY SERVICE ACADEMY REPORTS
                  
                     (a)
                     United States Military Academy
                     Section 7461(d)(2) of title 10, United States Code, is amended—
                     
                        (1)
                        by redesignating subparagraphs (B) and (C) as subparagraphs (C) and (D), respectively; and
                     
                     
                        (2)
                        by inserting after subparagraph (A) the following new subparagraph (B):
                        
                           
                              (B)
                              The number of such substantiated cases for which there is a reason to believe that the victim was targeted, or discriminated against, or both, for status in a group. 
                           
                           .
                        
                     
                  
                  
                     (b)
                     United States Naval Academy
                     Section 8480(d)(2) of such title is amended—
                     
                        (1)
                        by redesignating subparagraphs (B) and (C) as subparagraphs (C) and (D), respectively; and
                     
                     
                        (2)
                        by inserting after subparagraph (A) the following new subparagraph (B):
                        
                           
                              (B)
                              The number of such substantiated cases for which there is a reason to believe that the victim was targeted, or discriminated against, or both, for status in a group. 
                           
                           .
                        
                     
                  
                  
                     (c)
                     United States Air Force Academy
                     Section 9461(d)(2) of such title is amended—
                     
                        (1)
                        by redesignating subparagraphs (B) and (C) as subparagraphs (C) and (D), respectively; and
                     
                     
                        (2)
                        by inserting after subparagraph (A) the following new subparagraph (B):
                        
                           
                              (B)
                              The number of such substantiated cases for which there is a reason to believe that the victim was targeted, or discriminated against, or both, for status in a group. 
                           
                           .
                        
                     
                  
               
               
                  549B.
                  NAVAL POSTGRADUATE SCHOOL: FUNCTION
                  
                     (a)
                     Function
                     Section 8541 of title 10, United States Code, is amended, in the matter preceding paragraph (1), by striking to provide advanced instruction and professional and technical education and research opportunities for commissioned officers of the naval service and inserting to conduct research, to conduct wargaming, to conduct innovation, and to provide advanced instruction, professional, technical, and research and education, and innovation opportunities for commissioned and noncommissioned officers of the naval service.
                  
                  
                     (b)
                     President; assistants
                     Section 8542(b)(1) of title 10, United States Code, is amended—
                     
                        (1)
                        by striking professional and technical education and inserting professional, technical, and research and education; and
                     
                     
                        (2)
                        by striking research opportunities and inserting research and innovation opportunities.
                     
                  
               
               
                  549C.
                  REQUIRED TRAINING ON CONSTITUTION OF THE UNITED STATES FOR COMMISSIONED OFFICERS OF THE ARMED FORCES
                  The Secretary of Defense shall ensure that all commissioned officers of the Armed Forces receive training on the Constitution of the United States prior to commissioning. The training shall include—
                  
                     (1)
                     education on the centrality of the Constitution to the commitment officers make to serve in the Armed Forces;
                  
                  
                     (2)
                     emphasis on the loyalty of officers to the Constitution; and
                  
                  
                     (3)
                     instruction on certain aspects of the Constitution relevant to military service, including—
                     
                        (A)
                        civil-military relations;
                     
                     
                        (B)
                        separation of powers; and 
                     
                     
                        (C)
                        domestic use of military force.
                     
                  
               
               
                  549D.
                  ENSURING ACCESS TO CERTAIN HIGHER EDUCATION BENEFITS
                  
                     (a)
                     Data matching required
                     Not later than one year after the date of the enactment of this Act, the Secretary of Defense and the Secretary of Education shall jointly complete a data matching process—
                     
                        (1)
                        to identify each individual who, while serving as a covered employee of the Department of Defense, made one or more student loan payments eligible to be counted for purposes of the Public Service Loan Forgiveness program under section 455(m) of the Higher Education Act of 1965 (20 U.S.C. 1087e(m)); and
                     
                     
                        (2)
                        without requiring further information or action from such individual—
                        
                           (A)
                           to certify the total period of such employment for purposes of such program; and
                        
                        
                           (B)
                           to count the total number of qualifying payments made by the individual for purposes of such program during such period.
                        
                     
                  
                  
                     (b)
                     Covered employee defined
                     In this section, the term covered employee means an individual who, at any time beginning on or after October 1, 2007, was—
                     
                        (1)
                        a member of the Armed Forces serving on active duty for a period of more than 30 consecutive days; or
                     
                     
                        (2)
                        a civilian employee of the Department of Defense.
                     
                  
               
               
                  549E.
                  SERVICE ACADEMIES: REFERRAL OF DENIED APPLICANTS TO THE SENIOR MILITARY COLLEGES
                  
                     (a)
                     In general
                     Not later than 180 days after the date of the enactment of this Act the Secretary of Defense shall establish a system whereby a covered individual may elect to have the Secretary share information regarding such covered individual with a senior military college.
                  
                  
                     (b)
                     Definitions
                     In this section:
                     
                        (1)
                        The term covered individual means an individual whose application for an appointment as a cadet or midshipman at a Service Academy is denied.
                     
                     
                        (2)
                        The term senior military college means a school specified in section 2111a of title 10, United States Code.
                     
                     
                        (3)
                        The term Service Academy has the meaning given such term in section 347 of title 10, United States Code.
                     
                  
               
               
                  549F.
                  PILOT PROGRAM TO PROVIDE GRADUATE EDUCATION OPPORTUNITIES FOR ENLISTED MEMBERS OF THE ARMY AND NAVY
                  
                     (a)
                     Authority
                     The Secretary of the Navy and the Secretary of the Army shall jointly conduct a pilot program (referred to in this section as the Program) under which certain enlisted personnel of the covered Armed Forces may enroll in a master’s degree program at the Naval Postgraduate School.
                  
                  
                     (b)
                     Program requirements
                     The Secretaries concerned shall carry out the Program—
                     
                        (1)
                        in accordance with such regulations as may be prescribed by the Secretary of Defense for purposes of the Program; and
                     
                     
                        (2)
                        in a manner consistent with the Graduate Education Program–Enlisted pilot program of the Marine Corps.
                     
                  
                  
                     (c)
                     Eligibility of participants
                     The Secretaries concerned shall establish criteria for determining the eligibility of enlisted members of the covered Armed Forces for participation in the Program. In establishing such criteria, the Secretaries concerned may consider the following criteria used under the Graduate Education Program–Enlisted pilot program of the Marine Corps:
                     
                        (1)
                        Eligibility may be limited to active duty members of the covered Armed Forces with no more than 16 years of service by end of degree completion and prior to being assigned to duties that use such degree.
                     
                     
                        (2)
                        A member should not have been passed over for selection to the next higher grade.
                     
                     
                        (3)
                        A member should meet reenlistment requirements established by the component of the Armed Force responsible for such requirements to ensure four years of service are attainable after degree completion.
                     
                     
                        (4)
                        Any Primary Military Occupational Specialty may be eligible to apply.
                     
                     
                        (5)
                        A minimum of four years should remain on the member’s contract at the time of completion of the degree program. A member should be willing to re-enlist or extend a contract to meet the requirements under this paragraph.
                     
                     
                        (6)
                        A minimum of 24 months on station is recommended for applicants in assignments within the continental United States or 24 months for applicants in assignments outside the continental United States prior to the commencement studies at the Naval Postgraduate School, with the potential for exceptions.
                     
                     
                        (7)
                        All applicants should possess an institutionally accredited baccalaureate degree and should have the Academic Profile Code prescribed for the requested curricula. The Naval Postgraduate School should determine the official Academic Profile Code for each applicant and such official Academic Profile Code should be used as the basis in determining academic eligibility for participation in the Program. The application criteria for the Naval Postgraduate School may be further described, promulgated, and updated on the website of the School’s admissions office.
                     
                     
                        (8)
                        The member should hold, or be eligible for, a security clearance if required for—
                        
                           (A)
                           placement in a course of study under the Program; or
                        
                        
                           (B)
                           the member’s duty assignment after completion of such Program.
                        
                     
                     
                        (9)
                        Applicants should have completed all necessary professional military education for their current rank prior to executing orders.
                     
                  
                  
                     (d)
                     Selection and placement of participants
                     
                        (1)
                        Number of participants
                        The number of enlisted members selected for participation in the Program from each covered Armed Force shall be equal to the number of officers from that Armed Force who are enrolled in the Naval Postgraduate school at the time the selection is made.
                     
                     
                        (2)
                        Selection factors
                        Such selection hall be based on consideration of—
                        
                           (A)
                           the eligibility criteria established under subsection (c);
                        
                        
                           (B)
                           professional performance;
                        
                        
                           (C)
                           promotion potential;
                        
                        
                           (D)
                           retention potential;
                        
                        
                           (E)
                           academic background, capabilities, and accomplishments;
                        
                        
                           (F)
                           the needs of the Navy and Army;
                        
                        
                           (G)
                           input from the admissions office of the Naval Postgraduate School; and
                        
                        
                           (H)
                           input from the component within each Armed Force with primary responsibility for determining the duty assignments of enlisted members.
                        
                     
                  
                  
                     (e)
                     Post-participation service
                     Subject to such terms, conditions, and exceptions as the Secretaries concerned may establish, an enlisted member who receives a master’s degree under the Program, shall serve for a period of not less than two years in a duty assignment that is relevant to the degree obtained by the member under the Program.
                  
                  
                     (f)
                     Framework for filling billets
                     In conjunction with selecting enlisted members for participation in the Program as described in subsection (d), the Secretaries concerned shall establish a framework for assigning enlisted personnel who are not participating in the Program—
                     
                        (1)
                        to fill the billets of the members participating in the Program while such members are completing a course of study at the Naval Postgraduate School; and
                     
                     
                        (2)
                        to fill the billets of members who received a master’s degree under the Program while such members are engaged in post-participation service as described in subsection (e). 
                     
                  
                  
                     (g)
                     Identification of degree programs
                     The Secretaries concerned shall coordinate with the President of the Naval Postgraduate School to identify specific master’s degree programs offered by the School in which Program participants may enroll. In identifying such programs, the Secretaries shall consider—
                     
                        (1)
                        the needs of the Navy and Army;
                     
                     
                        (2)
                        the capacity of the Naval Postgraduate School; and
                     
                     
                        (3)
                        the extent to which enrollment in a specific program is expected to have a positive effect on the career trajectories of participants. 
                     
                  
                  
                     (h)
                     Information dissemination
                     The Secretaries concerned shall take such actions as are necessary to notify and inform enlisted members about the Program.
                  
                  
                     (i)
                     Report
                     Before the expiration of the six-year period described in subsection (i)(1), the Secretaries concerned, in coordination with the Secretary of Defense, shall submit to the Committees on Armed Services of the Senate and the House of Representatives a report that includes—
                     
                        (1)
                        an assessment of whether and to what extent the Program has met the needs of the covered Armed Forces and had positive effects on participating enlisted members, including with respect to—
                        
                           (A)
                           career trajectory, including potential pay increases;
                        
                        
                           (B)
                           retention;
                        
                        
                           (C)
                           recruitment;
                        
                        
                           (D)
                           job performance;
                        
                        
                           (E)
                           merit-based promotions and merit-based promotion reorder; and
                        
                        
                           (F)
                           compatibility with the objectives outlined in the 2022 National Defense Strategy to modernize the Armed Services, spur innovation, and outpace and outthink adversaries of the United States;
                        
                     
                     
                        (2)
                        the recommendations of the Secretaries regarding whether the Program should be extended or made permanent;
                     
                     
                        (3)
                        an assessment of the funding and capabilities that may be needed to make the Program permanent; and
                     
                     
                        (4)
                        any other matters the Secretaries determine to be relevant. 
                     
                  
                  
                     (j)
                     Sunset; optional extension
                     
                        (1)
                        Termination
                        Subject to paragraph (2), the Program shall terminate six years after the date on which the Program commences under this section.
                     
                     
                        (2)
                        Extension
                        The Secretaries concerned may extend the Program beyond the six-year period specified in paragraph (1) if, not later than 30 days before the expiration of such period, the Secretaries, in consultation with the President of the Naval Postgraduate School, submit to the Committees on Armed Services of the Senate and the House of Representatives—
                        
                           (A)
                           notice of the intent of the Secretaries to extend the Program; and
                        
                        
                           (B)
                           an explanation of the reasons for extending the Program.
                        
                     
                  
                  
                     (k)
                     Definitions
                     In this section:
                     
                        (1)
                        The term covered Armed Forces means the Army and the Navy.
                     
                     
                        (2)
                        The term Secretary concerned means—
                        
                           (A)
                           the Secretary of the Army, with respect to matters concerning the Army; and
                        
                        
                           (B)
                           the Secretary of the Navy, with respect to matters concerning the Navy.
                        
                     
                  
               
               
                  549G.
                  AIR FORCE RAPID RESPONSE LANGUAGE PILOT PROGRAM
                  
                     (a)
                     In general
                     Not later than 180 days after the date of the enactment of this Act, the Secretary of the Air Force shall establish a pilot program to enable—
                     
                        (1)
                        agile response to sudden requirements for skills in new languages where capability is limited or non-existent;
                     
                     
                        (2)
                        agile response to surge for any language required due to responses to conflict, humanitarian disaster, or other military requirements; and
                     
                     
                        (3)
                        development of innovative language learning technologies for delivering synchronous and asynchronous language training for Air Force linguists and other Air Force language enabled personnel.
                     
                  
                  
                     (b)
                     Report
                     Not later than 2 years after the date of the enactment of this Act, the Secretary shall submit to the Committee on Armed Services of the Senate and the Committee on Armed Services of the House of Representatives, on the results of the pilot program, including the number of courses developed, the number of personnel trained, the languages taught, the proficiency levels attained, response time to develop courses and train personnel, and availability for training personnel while on the job.
                  
                  
                     (c)
                     Briefing
                     Not later than July 1, 2025, the Secretary shall brief the Committees on Armed Services of the Senate and House of Representatives on implementation of this section and plans regarding continuing language education described in subsection (a).
                  
                  
                     (d)
                     Sunset
                     The authority under this section shall expire on September 30, 2028.
                  
               
               
                  549H.
                  MILITARY TRAINING AND COMPETENCY DATABASE
                  
                     (a)
                     Establishment of database
                     
                        (1)
                        Establishment
                        The Secretary of Defense shall establish—
                        
                           (A)
                           a centralized database, to be known as the Military Training and Competency Database (referred to in this section as the Database), to record and maintain information relating to training performed by members of the Armed Forces; and
                        
                        
                           (B)
                           a process to make the information in the database available to States and potential employers to assist in determining if the training provided to a member or former member of the Armed Forces satisfies civilian licensing and certification requirements.
                        
                     
                     
                        (2)
                        Contents
                        The Database shall include following information for each member of the Armed Forces:
                        
                           (A)
                           Name, rank, and military service identification number.
                        
                        
                           (B)
                           Branch of service and specialty.
                        
                        
                           (C)
                           Details of completed training courses, certifications, and qualifications.
                        
                        
                           (D)
                           Any other information the Secretary determines appropriate.
                        
                     
                     
                        (3)
                        Availability of information
                        The Secretary of Defense shall establish a process to make the information contained in the Database available to States and other employers upon request to assist such States and employers in verifying whether the training and qualifications of a member or former member of the Armed Forces satisfies relevant civilian licensing or certification requirements.
                     
                     
                        (4)
                        Security and accessibility
                        The Secretary of Defense shall ensure that the Database is secure, easily accessible, and regularly updated to reflect the training and qualifications acquired by members of the Armed Forces.
                     
                  
                  
                     (b)
                     Competency reports
                     
                        (1)
                        In general
                        Based on the information in the Database the Secretary of Defense shall provide to each member of the Armed Forces a document that outlines the training and qualifications acquired by a member while serving in the Armed Forces. Such document shall be known as a competency report. 
                     
                     
                        (2)
                        Format and contents
                        The Secretary of Defense shall develop a standardized format for competency reports, which shall include, at a minimum, the following information:
                        
                           (A)
                           Relevant personal details about the member.
                        
                        
                           (B)
                           Description of training courses, certifications, and qualifications obtained.
                        
                        
                           (C)
                           Date and duration of each completed training.
                        
                        
                           (D)
                           Authorized signatures and other necessary authentication.
                        
                     
                     
                        (3)
                        Availability
                        Competency reports shall be provided to members of the Armed Forces upon their separation or retirement from the Armed Forces.
                     
                  
                  
                     (c)
                     Implementation
                     
                        (1)
                        In general
                        Not later than one year after the date of the enactment of this Act, the Secretary of Defense shall establish the necessary regulations, procedures, and timelines for the implementation of this section.
                     
                     
                        (2)
                        Resources
                        The Secretary of Defense shall allocate sufficient resources to ensure the effective establishment, maintenance, and accessibility of the Database and the development and distribution of competency reports to members of the Armed Forces.
                     
                  
                  
                     (d)
                     Report to Congress
                     Not later than two years after the date of the enactment of this Act, the Secretary of Defense shall submit to the congressional defense committees a report on the implementation and effectiveness of the Database and any recommendations of the Secretary for improving the Database. The report shall include feedback and recommendations from States and other employers regarding the usability and accuracy of the Database and the competency reports described in subsection (b).
                  
               
               
                  549I.
                  MILITARY VEHICLE OPERATOR TRAINING PROGRAM
                  
                     (a)
                     Establishment of training curriculum
                     
                        (1)
                        In general
                        Not later than 180 days after the date of the enactment of this Act, the Secretary of Defense shall establish a standardized training curriculum for military vehicle operations, encompassing both classroom and practical training components.
                     
                     
                        (2)
                        Development
                        The training curriculum under paragraph (1) shall be developed in collaboration with subject matter experts, experienced members of the Armed Forces, and relevant stakeholders, and shall cover essential topics such as vehicle dynamics, safety procedures, hazard recognition and avoidance, defensive driving techniques, and vehicle recovery methods.
                     
                     
                        (3)
                        Updates
                        The Secretary of Defense shall ensure that the training curriculum under paragraph (1) is regularly updated to incorporate emerging best practices and technological advancements in military vehicle operations.
                     
                  
                  
                     (b)
                     Certification program
                     
                        (1)
                        In general
                        The Secretary of Defense shall establish a certification program to validate the proficiency of members of the Armed Forces in military vehicle operations.
                     
                     
                        (2)
                        Design of program
                        The certification program shall be designed to ensure that all members of the Armed Forces, regardless of deployment status, receive adequate training in military vehicle operations before being assigned to operational duty.
                     
                     
                        (3)
                        Assessments
                        The certification program shall include written exams, practical assessments, and evaluations of demonstrated competence.
                     
                     
                        (4)
                        Notice of completion
                        Notice shall be issued to members of the Armed Forces who successfully complete the training program and meet the established proficiency criteria.
                     
                  
                  
                     (c)
                     Deadlines
                     
                        (1)
                        Deadline for commencement
                        Not later than one year after the date of the enactment of this Act, the Secretary of Defense shall commence the development and implementation of the training curriculum under subsection (a) and the certification program under subsection (b).
                     
                     
                        (2)
                        Deadline for full integration
                        Not later than three years after the date of the enactment of this Act, the training curriculum under subsection (a) and the certification program under subsection (b) shall be fully integrated into military training programs.
                     
                  
                  
                     (d)
                     Training delivery methods
                     In carrying out this section, the Secretary of Defense shall—
                     
                        (1)
                        develop a comprehensive and interactive training methodology that combines traditional classroom instruction with hands-on, practical training exercises:
                     
                     
                        (2)
                        encourage the use of modern training technologies, simulators, and realistic training environments to enhance effectiveness of the training program; and 
                     
                     
                        (3)
                        ensure that training materials are up-to-date, accessible, and tailored to the specific vehicle types and operational environments members of the Armed Forces are likely to encounter.
                     
                  
                  
                     (e)
                     Information collection and evaluations
                     In carrying out this section, the Secretary of Defense shall—
                     
                        (1)
                        update reporting mechanisms used to collect and analyze data related to military vehicle incidents, including vehicle rollovers, and the causes of such incidents;
                     
                     
                        (2)
                        conduct regular evaluations of the effectiveness of the training under this section in reducing incidents and improving the proficiency of military vehicle operators; and
                     
                     
                        (3)
                        promptly implement any recommendations for program improvements based on the results of such data and evaluations.
                     
                  
               
               
                  549J.
                  SPEECH DISORDERS OF CADETS AND MIDSHIPMEN
                  
                     (a)
                     Testing
                     The Superintendent of a military service academy shall provide testing for speech disorders to incoming cadets or midshipmen under the jurisdiction of that Superintendent.
                  
                  
                     (b)
                     No effect on admission
                     The testing under subsection (a) may not have any affect on admission to a military service academy.
                  
                  
                     (c)
                     Results
                     The Superintendent shall provide each cadet or midshipman under the jurisdiction of that Superintendent the result of the testing under subsection (a) and a list of warfare unrestricted line officer positions and occupation specialists that require successful performance on the speech test.
                  
                  
                     (d)
                     Therapy
                     The Superintendent shall furnish speech therapy to a cadet or midshipman under the jurisdiction of that Superintendent at the election of the cadet or midshipman.
                  
                  
                     (e)
                     Retaking
                     A cadet or midshipman whose testing indicate a speech disorder or impediment may elect to retake the testing once each academic year while enrolled at the military service academy.
                  
               
               
                  549K.
                  ANNUAL TRAINING ON THE PREVENTION OF SEXUAL ABUSE FOR STUDENTS IN THE JUNIOR RESERVE OFFICERS' TRAINING CORPS
                  
                     Chapter 102 of title 10, United States Code, is amended by adding at the end the following new section:
                  
                     
                        2037.
                        TRAINING ON PREVENTION OF SEXUAL ABUSE
                        
                           (a)
                           Establishment
                           The Secretary of Defense, acting through the Under Secretary of Defense for Personnel and Readiness, shall establish training for students enrolled in the Junior Reserve Officers' Training Corps regarding prevention of sexual abuse.
                        
                        
                           (b)
                           Elements
                           The training established under this section shall—
                           
                              (1)
                              be age-appropriate;
                           
                           
                              (2)
                              be evidence-based in polyvictimization research;
                           
                           
                              (3)
                              be comprehensive, including elements regarding—
                              
                                 (A)
                                 grooming;
                              
                              
                                 (B)
                                 bullying, including cyberbullying;
                              
                              
                                 (C)
                                 appropriate relationships and interactions between such students and instructors;
                              
                              
                                 (D)
                                 signs of inappropriate behavior between adults and adolescents; and
                              
                              
                                 (E)
                                 digital abuse; and
                              
                           
                           
                              (4)
                              provide such students with the contact information of local resources through which a student may report alleged sexual abuse or receive treatment and support for such abuse.
                           
                        
                        
                           (c)
                           Provision
                           The Secretary shall ensure that each such student receives training established under this section—
                           
                              (1)
                              from an entity other than an administrator or instructor of the Junior Reserve Officers' Training Corps; and
                           
                           
                              (2)
                              once each year.
                           
                        
                        
                           (d)
                           Metrics
                           The Secretary shall establish and maintain metrics regarding the effectiveness of the training established under this section.
                        
                        
                           (e)
                           Sexual abuse defined
                           In this section, the term sexual abuse means an offense covered by section 920, 920b, 920c, or 930 of this title (article 120, 120b, 120c, or 130 of the Uniform Code of Military Justice).
                        
                     
                     .
                  
               
               
                  549L.
                  EXPANSION OF AUTHORITY TO DETAIL MEMBERS TO LAW EDUCATION PROGRAMS
                  
                     (a)
                     Expansion
                     Section 2004 of title 10, United States Code, is amended—
                     
                        (1)
                        in subsection (a)—
                        
                           (A)
                           by inserting 
                                 (1)
                               before The Secretary;
                        
                        
                           (B)
                           by striking the second sentence; and
                        
                        
                           (C)
                           by adding at the end the following new paragraphs:
                           
                              
                                 (2)
                                 
                                    (A)
                                    The Secretary of the military department concerned may pay expenses incident to the detail, under this subsection, of an officer or enlisted member for a period of training described in paragraph (1).
                                 
                                 
                                    (B)
                                    Not more than 25 officers and enlisted members from each military department may, in any single fiscal year, begin a period of training described in paragraph (1) for which the Secretary of the military department concerned pays expenses under this paragraph.
                                 
                              
                              
                                 (3)
                                 The Secretary of the military department concerned may detail an officer or enlisted member under paragraph (1) without paying expenses under paragraph (2).
                              
                              ;
                           
                        
                     
                     
                        (2)
                        in subsection (b)—
                        
                           (A)
                           in paragraph (1), by striking either and inserting in the case of a member for whose training the Secretary of the military department concerned pays expenses under subsection (a)(2), either;
                        
                        
                           (B)
                           in subparagraph (C) of paragraph (3)—
                           
                              (i)
                              by striking period of two years and all that follows and inserting an em dash; and
                           
                           
                              (ii)
                              by adding at the end the following new clauses:
                              
                                 
                                    (i)
                                    in the case of a member for whose training the Secretary of the military department concerned pays expenses under subsection (a)(2), two years; or
                                 
                                 
                                    (ii)
                                    in the case of a member described in subsection (a)(3), one year for each year or part thereof of legal training under subsection (a).
                                 
                                 ;
                              
                           
                        
                        
                           (C)
                           by redesignating paragraphs (2) and (3) as paragraphs (3) and (4), respectively;
                        
                        
                           (D)
                           by inserting after paragraph (1) the following new paragraph (2):
                           
                              
                                 (2)
                                 in the case of a member described in subsection (a)(3), either—
                                 
                                    (A)
                                    have served on active duty for a period of not less than two years nor more than eight years and be an officer in the grade of O–3 or below as of the time the training is to begin; or
                                 
                                 
                                    (B)
                                    have served on active duty for a period of not less than four years nor more than ten years and be an enlisted member in the grade of E–5, E–6, or E–7 as of the time the training is to begin;
                                 
                              
                              ; and
                           
                        
                        
                           (E)
                           in subsection (d), by striking under this section and inserting paid under subsection (a)(2) of.
                        
                     
                  
                  
                     (b)
                     Basic allowance for housing during detail
                     
                        (1)
                        Rule of construction
                        Section 403 of title 37, United States Code, is amended—
                        
                           (A)
                           by redesignating subsection (q) as subsection (r); and
                        
                        
                           (B)
                           by inserting after subsection (p) the following new subsection (q):
                           
                              
                                 (q)
                                 Rule of construction for certain detail
                                 A member of the armed forces may not be denied an allowance under this section solely on the basis that such member has been detailed for a period of training under section 2004 of title 10.
                              
                              .
                           
                        
                     
                     
                        (2)
                        Retroactive effect
                        A member of the Armed Forces who, on or after August 1, 2023, the Secretary of the military department concerned determined, under section 502 of title 37, United States Code, was absent for a period that is longer than the leave authorized by section 701 of title 10, United States Code, because the member was detailed or assigned by the Secretary of the military department concerned as a full-time student to a civilian institution to pursue a program of education, is entitled to the basic allowance for housing under section 403 of title 37, United States Code, to which the member would have been entitled if the member were not so absent.
                     
                  
               
               
                  549M.
                  DIVE SCHOOL REQUIRED ELEMENT OF QUALIFICATION AS A COMBAT CONTROLLER OF THE AIR FORCE
                  The Secretary of the Air Force shall require that training to qualify as a combat controller of the Air Force includes dive school.
               
            
            
               F
               Military Justice and Other Legal Matters
               
                  551.
                  AUTHORITY OF SPECIAL TRIAL COUNSEL WITH RESPECT TO CERTAIN OFFENSES OCCURRING BEFORE EFFECTIVE DATE OF MILITARY JUSTICE REFORMS
                  Section 824a(d) of title 10, United States Code, as added by section 531 of the National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2024 (Public Law 118–31; 137 Stat. 258), is amended—
                  
                     (1)
                     in paragraph (1)(A), by striking section 920 (article 120), and inserting section 919a (article 119a), section 920 (article 120), section 920a (article 120a),;
                  
                  
                     (2)
                     by redesignating paragraph (2) as paragraph (3);
                  
                  
                     (3)
                     by inserting after paragraph (2) the following new paragraph:
                     
                        
                           (2)
                           The standalone offense of sexual harassment
                           After January 1, 2025, a special trial counsel may, at the sole and exclusive discretion of the special trial counsel, exercise authority over the following offenses:
                           
                              (A)
                              The standalone offense of sexual harassment punishable under section 934 of this title (article 134) in each instance in which—
                              
                                 (i)
                                 the offense occurs after January 26, 2022, and on or before January 1, 2025; and
                              
                              
                                 (ii)
                                 a formal complaint is substantiated in accordance with regulations prescribed by the Secretary concerned.
                              
                           
                           
                              (B)
                              A conspiracy to commit an offense specified in subparagraph (A) as punishable under section 881 of this title (article 81).
                           
                           
                              (C)
                              A solicitation to commit an offense specified in subparagraph (A) as punishable under section 882 of this title (article 82).
                           
                           
                              (D)
                              An attempt to commit an offense specified in subparagraph (A), (B), or (C) as punishable under section 880 of this title (article 80).
                           
                        
                        ; and
                     
                  
                  
                     (4)
                     in paragraph (3), as so redesignated—
                     
                        (A)
                        in subparagraph (A), by inserting or (2) after paragraph (1); and
                     
                     
                        (B)
                        in subparagraph (B), by striking paragraph (1) and inserting subsection (c)(2)(A) or paragraph (1) or (2) of this subsection.
                     
                  
               
               
                  552.
                  DETAILING OF APPELLATE DEFENSE COUNSEL
                  Subsection (b) of section 865 of title 10, United States Code (article 65 of the Uniform Code of Military Justice), is amended—
                  
                     (1)
                     in paragraph (1)—
                     
                        (A)
                        by striking the Judge Advocate General shall forward the record and inserting the following: 
                        
                           the Judge Advocate General shall forward—
                           
                              (A)
                              the record
                           
                           ;
                        
                     
                     
                        (B)
                        in subparagraph (A), as designated by subparagraph (A) of this paragraph, by striking the period and inserting ; and; and
                     
                     
                        (C)
                        by adding at the end the following new subparagraph:
                        
                           
                              (B)
                              a copy of the record of trial to an appellate defense counsel who shall be detailed to review the case and, upon request of the accused, to represent the accused before the Court of Criminal Appeals.
                           
                           ; and
                        
                     
                  
                  
                     (2)
                     in paragraph (2)—
                     
                        (A)
                        in subparagraph (A)—
                        
                           (i)
                           in the matter preceding clause (i), by striking shall and inserting shall, upon written request of the accused;
                        
                        
                           (ii)
                           in clause (i), by striking , upon request of the accused,; and
                        
                        
                           (iii)
                           in clause (ii), by striking upon written request of the accused,; and
                        
                     
                     
                        (B)
                        in subparagraph (B)—
                        
                           (i)
                           by striking accused and all that follows through waives and inserting accused waives;
                        
                        
                           (ii)
                           by striking ; or and inserting a period; and
                        
                        
                           (iii)
                           by striking clause (ii).
                        
                     
                  
               
               
                  553.
                  MODIFICATION TO OFFENSE OF AIDING THE ENEMY UNDER THE UNIFORM CODE OF MILITARY JUSTICE
                  Section 903b(2) of title 10, United States Code (article 103b(2) of the Uniform Code of Military Justice), is amended by inserting provides military education, military training, or tactical advice to, after gives intelligence to,.
               
               
                  554.
                  MODIFICATION OF TIMELINE FOR POTENTIAL IMPLEMENTATION OF STUDY ON UNANIMOUS COURT-MARTIAL VERDICTS
                  Section 536(c)(3) of the National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2024 (Public Law 118–31; 137 Stat. 263) is amended by striking 2027 and inserting 2025.
               
               
                  555.
                  EXPANDED COMMAND NOTIFICATIONS TO VICTIMS OF DOMESTIC VIOLENCE
                  Section 549 of the National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2020 (Public Law 116–92; 10 U.S.C. 806b note) is amended—
                  
                     (1)
                     in the first sentence—
                     
                        (A)
                        by inserting , or a case of an alleged domestic violence-related offense (as defined by the Secretary), after of title 10, United States Code); and
                     
                     
                        (B)
                        by striking periodically notify the victim and inserting periodically notify the victim (or the victim’s legal counsel if so requested by the victim); and
                     
                  
                  
                     (2)
                     in the last sentence, by striking notify the victim and inserting notify the victim (or the victim’s legal counsel if so requested by the victim).
                  
               
               
                  556.
                  PROHIBITING THE BROADCAST AND DISTRIBUTION OF DIGITALLY MANIPULATED INTIMATE IMAGES
                  
                     (a)
                     Recommendations required
                     The Joint Service Committee on Military Justice shall develop recommendations for modifying the offense of indecent viewing, visual recording, or broadcasting under section 920c of title 10, United States Code (article 120c of the Uniform Code of Military Justice) to clarify its applicability to the broadcasting and distribution of digitally manipulated intimate images.
                  
                  
                     (b)
                     Considerations
                     In developing recommendations under subsection (a), the Joint Service Committee on Military Justice shall consider—
                     
                        (1)
                        the advisability of modifying section 920c of title 10, United States Code (article 120c of the Uniform Code of Military Justice)—
                        
                           (A)
                           to prohibit the broadcasting or distribution of an intimate digital depiction of another person that the offender knew or reasonably should have known was made without the other person’s consent and under circumstances in which that person has a reasonable expectation of privacy; and
                        
                        
                           (B)
                           to define the term intimate digital depiction (as used in subparagraph (A)) as a digital depiction of an individual that has been created or altered using digital manipulation and that depicts—
                           
                              (i)
                              the private area of an identifiable individual; or
                           
                           
                              (ii)
                              an identifiable individual engaging in sexually explicit conduct (as defined in section 917a(b) of title 10, United States Code (article 117a(b)(4) of the Uniform Code of Military Justice)); and
                           
                        
                     
                     
                        (2)
                        such other approaches to the modification of such section 920c (article 120c) as the Committee considers appropriate to address digitally manipulated intimate images.
                     
                  
                  
                     (c)
                     Report
                     Not later than 180 days after the date of the enactment of this Act, the Joint Service Committee on Military Justice shall submit to the Committees on Armed Services of the Senate and the House of Representatives a report that includes—
                     
                        (1)
                        the recommendations developed under subsection (a); and
                     
                     
                        (2)
                        draft legislative text that sets forth all amendments and modifications to law that may be needed to effectively implement such recommendations. 
                     
                  
               
               
                  557.
                  TREATMENT OF CERTAIN RECORDS OF CRIMINAL INVESTIGATIONS
                  
                     (a)
                     In general
                     
                        Chapter 79 of title 10, United States Code, is amended by inserting after section 1552 the following new section:
                     
                        
                           1552a.
                           TREATMENT OF CERTAIN RECORDS OF CRIMINAL INVESTIGATIONS
                           
                              (a)
                              Guidance required
                              The Secretary of Defense shall develop and implement uniform guidance providing for the modification of titling and indexing systems to ensure that a record identifying a member or former member of the Armed Forces as the subject of a criminal investigation is removed from such system if that member or former member is cleared of wrongdoing as described in subsection (b).
                           
                           
                              (b)
                              Disposition of investigations
                              A member or former member of the Armed Forces who is the subject of a criminal investigation shall be considered to have been cleared of wrongdoing for purposes of subsection (a) if—
                              
                                 (1)
                                 an investigation conducted by a defense criminal investigative organization or another Federal or civilian law enforcement agency determines that—
                                 
                                    (A)
                                    no probable cause exists to support that the member or former member is responsible for the alleged offense; or
                                 
                                 
                                    (B)
                                    the member or former member was mistakenly identified as a subject; or
                                 
                              
                              
                                 (2)
                                 the reasons specified for the charges for which the member or former member was under investigation are unsupported by probable cause as determined by—
                                 
                                    (A)
                                    a court-martial or other proceeding brought under chapter 47 of this title; or
                                 
                                 
                                    (B)
                                    a civilian court.
                                 
                              
                           
                           
                              (c)
                              Prohibition on involuntary separation
                              No member of an Armed Force may be involuntarily separated solely for an offense for which the member is cleared of wrongdoing as described in subsection (b).
                           
                           
                              (d)
                              Definitions
                              In this section:
                              
                                 (1)
                                 The term defense criminal investigative organization means—
                                 
                                    (A)
                                    the Army Criminal Investigation Command;
                                 
                                 
                                    (B)
                                    the Naval Criminal Investigative Service;
                                 
                                 
                                    (C)
                                    the Air Force Office of Special Investigations;
                                 
                                 
                                    (D)
                                    the Coast Guard Investigative Service;
                                 
                                 
                                    (E)
                                    the Defense Criminal Investigative Service; and
                                 
                                 
                                    (F)
                                    any other organization or element of the Department of Defense or an Armed Force that is responsible for conducting criminal investigations. 
                                 
                              
                              
                                 (2)
                                 The term indexing means the practice of submitting an individual’s name or other personally identifiable information to the Federal Bureau of Investigation’s Interstate Identification Index, or any successor system.
                              
                              
                                 (3)
                                 The term titling means the practice of identifying an individual as the subject of a criminal investigation in the records of a military criminal investigative organization and storing such information in a database or other records system.
                              
                              
                                 (4)
                                 The term titling and indexing system means any database or other records system used by a defense criminal investigative organization for purposes of titling and indexing, including the Defense Central Index of Investigations (commonly known as DCII).
                              
                           
                        
                        .
                     
                  
                  
                     (b)
                     Review and documentation
                     Not later than 60 days after the date of the enactment of this Act, each Secretary concerned, pursuant to the guidance issued by the Secretary of Defense under section 1552a of title 10, United States Code (as added by subsection (a)), and in consultation with the appropriate Judge Advocate General, shall—
                     
                        (1)
                        review the titling and indexing systems of the defense criminal investigative organizations under the jurisdiction of such Secretary to identify each record in such system that pertains to a member or former member of the Armed Forces who has been cleared of wrongdoing as described in subsection (b) of such section 1552a; 
                     
                     
                        (2)
                        notify the defense criminal investigative organization involved of each record identified under paragraph (1); and
                     
                     
                        (3)
                        direct the head of the organization to remove the record in accordance with subsection (c).
                     
                  
                  
                     (c)
                     Deadline for removal
                     The head of a defense criminal investigative organization that receives a notice under subsection (b)(2) with respect to a record in a titling or indexing system shall ensure that the record is removed from such system by not later than 30 days after the date on which the notice is received.
                  
                  
                     (d)
                     Effect on other law
                     The requirements of this section and the amendments made by this section are in addition to any requirements imposed under section 549 of the National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2023 (Public Law 117–263; 10 U.S.C. 1552 note). This section and the amendments made by this section shall supersede any provision of section 549 of that Act that is inconsistent with this section or such amendments, but only to the extent of the inconsistency.
                  
                  
                     (e)
                     Definitions
                     In this section:
                     
                        (1)
                        The terms defense criminal investigative organization, indexing, titling, and titling and indexing system have the meanings given those terms in section 1552a(d) of title 10, United States Code (as added by subsection (a)).
                     
                     
                        (2)
                        The term Secretary concerned has the meaning given that term in section 101(a) of title 10, United States Code.
                     
                  
               
               
                  558.
                  RECOMMENDATIONS FOR REVISIONS TO MILITARY RULES OF EVIDENCE TO PROTECT PATIENT PRIVACY
                  
                     (a)
                     Recommendations required
                     The Joint Service Committee on Military Justice shall develop recommendations for modifying rule 513 of the Military Rules of Evidence (as set forth in part III of the Manual for Courts-Martial) to include diagnoses of a patient and treatments prescribed to a patient as confidential communications subject to the psychotherapist-patient privilege.
                  
                  
                     (b)
                     Considerations
                     In developing recommendations under subsection (a), the Joint Service Committee on Military Justice shall consider—
                     
                        (1)
                        the advisability of modifying Military Rule of Evidence 513 to cover psychotherapy diagnoses and treatments; and
                     
                     
                        (2)
                        such other approaches to the modification of Military Rule of Evidence 513 as the Committee considers appropriate to address victim privacy rights.
                     
                  
                  
                     (c)
                     Report
                     Not later than 180 days after the date of the enactment of this Act, the Joint Service Committee on Military Justice shall submit to the Committees on Armed Services of the Senate and the House of Representatives a report that includes—
                     
                        (1)
                        the recommendations developed under subsection (a); and
                     
                     
                        (2)
                        draft legislative text that sets forth all amendments and modifications to law that may be needed to effectively implement such recommendations.
                     
                  
               
               
                  559.
                  CORRECTION OF CERTAIN CITATIONS IN TITLE 18, UNITED STATES CODE, RELATING TO SEXUAL OFFENSES
                  Part I of title 18, United States Code, is amended—
                  
                     (1)
                     in section 2241(c)—
                     
                        (A)
                        in the second sentence, by inserting or an offense under the Uniform Code of Military Justice after State offense; and
                     
                     
                        (B)
                        by striking either such provision and inserting any such provision; 
                     
                  
                  
                     (2)
                     in section 2251(e), by striking section 920 of title 10 (article 120 of the Uniform Code of Military Justice), or under each place it appears and inserting the Uniform Code of Military Justice or;
                  
                  
                     (3)
                     in section 2252(b)—
                     
                        (A)
                        in paragraph (1), by striking section 920 of title 10 (article 120 of the Uniform Code of Military Justice), or under and inserting the Uniform Code of Military Justice or; and
                     
                     
                        (B)
                        in paragraph (2), by striking section 920 of title 10 (article 120 of the Uniform Code of Military Justice), or under and inserting the Uniform Code of Military Justice or;
                     
                  
                  
                     (4)
                     in section 2252A(b)—
                     
                        (A)
                        in paragraph (1), by striking section 920 of title 10 (article 120 of the Uniform Code of Military Justice), or under and inserting the Uniform Code of Military Justice or; and
                     
                     
                        (B)
                        in paragraph (2), by striking section 920 of title 10 (article 120 of the Uniform Code of Military Justice), or under and inserting the Uniform Code of Military Justice or;
                     
                  
                  
                     (5)
                     in section 2426(b)(1)(B), by inserting or the Uniform Code of Military Justice after State law; and
                  
                  
                     (6)
                     in section 3559(e)(2)—
                     
                        (A)
                        in subparagraph (B)—
                        
                           (i)
                           by striking State sex offense and inserting State or Military sex offense; and
                        
                        
                           (ii)
                           by inserting or the Uniform Code of Military Justice after State law; and
                        
                     
                     
                        (B)
                        in subparagraph (C), by inserting or Military after State.
                     
                  
               
            
            
               G
               Member Transition
               
                  561.
                  MODIFICATIONS TO TRANSITION ASSISTANCE PROGRAM
                  
                     (a)
                     Waiver for certain members of the reserve components
                     Paragraph (4) of subsection (a) of section 1142 of title 10, United States Code, is amended by adding at the end the following new subparagraph:
                     
                        
                           (D)
                           The Secretary concerned may waive the requirement for preseparation counseling under paragraph (1) in the case of a member of a reserve component if—
                           
                              (i)
                              the member requests such a waiver;
                           
                           
                              (ii)
                              the member received preseparation counseling during the three-year period preceding the date of such request; and
                           
                           
                              (iii)
                              the matters covered by such counseling, as specified in subsection (b), have not changed since the member last received such counseling.
                           
                        
                        .
                     
                  
                  
                     (b)
                     Eligibility of a member who reenlists to receive preseparation counseling
                     Such subsection is further amended by adding at the end the following new paragraph:
                     
                        
                           (5)
                           The commanding officer of a member of the armed forces whose discharge (regardless of character of discharge) or release from active duty is anticipated as of a specific date may, on a space available basis, authorize such member to receive preseparation counseling, regardless of whether such member reenlists or agrees to a new period of obligated service.
                        
                        .
                     
                  
               
               
                  562.
                  MINIMUM DURATION OF PRESEPARATION COUNSELING REGARDING FINANCIAL PLANNING
                  Section 1142(b)(9) of title 10, United States Code, is amended—
                  
                     (1)
                     by inserting and counseling after assistance; and 
                  
                  
                     (2)
                     by inserting , which counseling shall be for a period not shorter than one hour after taxes.
                  
               
               
                  563.
                  TRANSITION ASSISTANCE PROGRAM: PRESENTATION IN PRESEPARATION COUNSELING TO PROMOTE BENEFITS AVAILABLE TO VETERANS
                  
                     (a)
                     In general
                     Section 1142(b) of title 10, United States Code, is amended by adding at the end the following new paragraph:
                     
                        
                           (20)
                           A presentation that promotes the benefits available to veterans under the laws administered by the Secretary of Veterans Affairs. Such presentation—
                           
                              (A)
                              shall be standardized;
                           
                           
                              (B)
                              shall, before implementation, be reviewed and approved by the Secretary of Veterans Affairs in collaboration with veterans service organizations that provide claims assistance under the benefits delivery at discharge program of the Department of Veterans Affairs;
                           
                           
                              (C)
                              shall be submitted by the Secretary of Veterans Affairs to the Committees on Veterans’ Affairs of the Senate and the House of Representatives for review at least 90 days before implementation;
                           
                           
                              (D)
                              where available, shall be presented with the participation of—
                              
                                 (i)
                                 a representative of a veterans service organization recognized under section 5902 of title 38; or
                              
                              
                                 (ii)
                                 an individual—
                                 
                                    (I)
                                    recognized under section 5903 of such title; and
                                 
                                 
                                    (II)
                                    authorized by the Secretary concerned to so participate;
                                 
                              
                           
                           
                              (E)
                              shall include information on how a veterans service organization may assist the member in filing a claim described in paragraph (19);
                           
                           
                              (F)
                              may not encourage the member to join a particular veterans service organization; and
                           
                           
                              (G)
                              may not be longer than one hour.
                           
                        
                        .
                     
                  
                  
                     (b)
                     Annual report
                     Not less than frequently than once each year after the date of the enactment of this Act, the Secretary of Veterans Affairs shall submit, to the Committees on Armed Services of the Senate and House of Representatives, and to the Committees on Veterans’ Affairs of the Senate and House of Representatives, a report that—
                     
                        (1)
                        identifies each veterans service organization that participated in a presentation under paragraph (20) of section 1142(b) of title 10, United States Code, as added by subsection (a);
                     
                     
                        (2)
                        contains the number of members of the Armed Forces who attended such presentations; and
                     
                     
                        (3)
                        includes any recommendations of the Secretary regarding changes to such presentation or to such paragraph.
                     
                  
               
               
                  564.
                  ESTABLISHMENT OF COUNSELING PATHWAY IN THE TRANSITION ASSISTANCE PROGRAM FOR MEMBERS OF CERTAIN RESERVE COMPONENTS OF THE ARMED FORCES
                  Section 1142(c)(1) of title 10, United States Code, is amended, in the matter preceding subparagraph (A), by inserting (including one pathway for members of the reserve components of the Army, Navy, Marine Corps, Air Force, or Space Force) after military department concerned.
               
               
                  565.
                  PATHWAY FOR INDIVIDUALIZED COUNSELING FOR MEMBERS OF THE RESERVE COMPONENTS UNDER TAP
                  Section 1142(c)(1) of title 10, United States Code, is amended, in the matter preceding subparagraph (A), by inserting (including one pathway for members of the reserve components) after military department concerned.
               
               
                  566.
                  TRANSITION ASSISTANCE PROGRAM: DEPARTMENT OF LABOR EMPLOYMENT NAVIGATOR AND PARTNERSHIP PILOT PROGRAM
                  
                     (a)
                     Establishment
                     Not later than one year after the date of the enactment of this Act, the Secretary of Labor, in consultation with the Secretary of Defense, the Secretary of the department in which the Coast Guard is operating when it is not operating as a service in the Navy, and the Secretary of Veterans Affairs, shall carry out a pilot program to be known as the Employment Navigator and Partnership Pilot Program. The pilot program shall supplement the program under section 1144 of title 10, United States Code.
                  
                  
                     (b)
                     Activities
                     In carrying out the pilot program under this section, the Secretary of Labor, in consultation with the Secretary of Defense, the Secretary of the department in which the Coast Guard is operating when it is not operating as a service in the Navy, and the Secretary of Veterans Affairs, shall—
                     
                        (1)
                        seek to enter into contracts with public, private, and nonprofit entities under which such entities provide individualized employment counseling for members of the Armed Forces and their spouses;
                     
                     
                        (2)
                        prioritize entering into contracts with qualified private entities that have experience providing instruction to members of the Armed Forces eligible for assistance under the pilot program carried out under this section on—
                        
                           (A)
                           private sector culture, resume writing, career networking, and training on job search technologies;
                        
                        
                           (B)
                           academic readiness and educational opportunities; or
                        
                        
                           (C)
                           other relevant topics, as determined by the Secretary;
                        
                     
                     
                        (3)
                        prioritize entering into a contract with a qualified private entity that is an existing Employment Navigator and Partnership Pilot Program partner with experience integrating members of the Armed Forces into local communities across the entire nation, to:
                        
                           (A)
                           Lead the program in clause (2) and, following person-to-person interactions and discussions with the individuals seeking assistance, provide referrals to the organizations under contract with the Secretary based on the Armed Forces member or veterans preferences, geographic location, and other factors;
                        
                        
                           (B)
                           Provide comprehensive wrap-around services to the those individuals receiving assistance under this title, to include services with other matters related to transition, and remain in contact with the individuals through person-to-person engagements throughout the process;
                           
                              (iii)
                              Provide close coordination with contracted organizations and follow-up communications with those enrolled in the Employment Navigator and Partnership Pilot Program to ensure a smooth transition;
                           
                           
                              (iv)
                              Ensure the Secretary is provided with appropriate data on referrals, outcomes, and issues that arise to enable proper oversight of the program;
                           
                        
                     
                     
                        (4)
                        give a preference to any private entity that—
                        
                           (A)
                           has a national or international geographical area of service;
                        
                        
                           (B)
                           provides multiple forms of career assistance and placement services to—
                           
                              (i)
                              active duty members of the Armed Forces;
                           
                           
                              (ii)
                              spouses of active duty members of the Armed Forces;
                           
                           
                              (iii)
                              veterans; and
                           
                           
                              (iv)
                              spouses of veterans;
                           
                        
                        
                           (C)
                           provides services to at least 1,000 individuals who are—
                           
                              (i)
                              active duty members of the Armed Forces;
                           
                           
                              (ii)
                              spouses of active duty members of the Armed Forces;
                           
                           
                              (iii)
                              veterans; or
                           
                           
                              (iv)
                              spouses of veterans;
                           
                        
                        
                           (D)
                           has continuously, for at least the three-year period immediately preceding the date of the contract, provided services to individuals who are—
                           
                              (i)
                              active duty members of the Armed Forces;
                           
                           
                              (ii)
                              spouses of active duty members of the Armed Forces;
                           
                           
                              (iii)
                              veterans; and
                           
                           
                              (iv)
                              spouses of veterans; and
                           
                        
                        
                           (E)
                           has a demonstrated record of success in providing assistance with employment services, as indicated by—
                           
                              (i)
                              the average wages or earnings of people who receive employment services provided by the entity;
                           
                           
                              (ii)
                              prior completion of Federal grants or contracts;
                           
                           
                              (iii)
                              having at least 75 percent of its participants find full-time employment within six months of initially receiving employment services provided by the entity; and
                           
                           
                              (iv)
                              other employment performance indicators, as determined by the Secretary; and
                           
                        
                     
                     
                        (5)
                        seek to enter into contracts with not fewer than 10, but not more than 60, private entities under which each such entity is compensated at a rate agreed upon between the Secretary and the entity for each individual who receives employment services provided by the entity and is in unsubsidized employment during the second quarter after exit from the program; and
                     
                     
                        (6)
                        conduct such other activities as may be necessary for the delivery of individualized employment counseling and other employment services under this section.
                     
                  
                  
                     (c)
                     Report
                     Not later than October 1 of each year during the term of the pilot program, the Secretary of Labor, in consultation with the Secretary of Defense, the Secretary of the department in which the Coast Guard is operating when it is not operating as a service in the Navy, and the Secretary of Veterans Affairs, shall submit to the Committees on Armed Services, the Committee on Transportation and Infrastructure of the House of Representatives, and the Committees on Veterans’ Affairs of the Senate and House of Representatives a report on the pilot program under this section, including the employment outcomes for members of the Armed Forces and their spouses who receive employment services under the program on the following indicators of performance—
                     
                        (1)
                        the percentage of program participants who are in unsubsidized employment during the second quarter after exit from the program;
                     
                     
                        (2)
                        the percentage of program participants who are in unsubsidized employment during the fourth quarter after exit from the program; and
                     
                     
                        (3)
                        the median earnings of program participants who are in unsubsidized employment during the second quarter after exit from the program.
                     
                  
                  
                     (d)
                     Termination
                     The pilot program shall terminate five years after the date on which the Secretary of Labor begins to carry out the pilot program.
                  
               
               
                  567.
                  PILOT PROGRAM ON SECURE, MOBILE PERSONAL HEALTH RECORD FOR MEMBERS OF THE ARMED FORCES PARTICIPATING IN THE TRANSITION ASSISTANCE PROGRAM
                  
                     (a)
                     Pilot program
                     Not later than 180 days after the date of the enactment of this Act, the Secretary of Defense shall commence a pilot program under which active duty members of the Armed Forces who are enrolled in the Transition Assistance Program use a covered health record platform to collect their records before separating from active duty.
                  
                  
                     (b)
                     Selection of Armed Forces
                     The Secretary shall select not less than one Armed Force in which to carry out the pilot program under subsection (a).
                  
                  
                     (c)
                     Contracts
                     
                        (1)
                        Authority
                        The Secretary shall seek to enter into a contract using competitive procedures with an appropriate entity for the provision of the covered health record platform under the pilot program under subsection (a).
                     
                     
                        (2)
                        Notice of competition
                        
                           (A)
                           In general
                           Not later than 60 days after the date of the enactment of this Act, the Secretary shall issue a request for proposals for the contract described in paragraph (1).
                        
                        
                           (B)
                           Open competition
                           A request under subparagraph (A) shall be full and open to any contractor that has an existing covered health record platform.
                        
                     
                     
                        (3)
                        Selection
                        Not later than 120 days after the date of the enactment of this Act, the Secretary shall award a contract to an appropriate entity pursuant to the request for proposals under paragraph (2) if at least one acceptable offer is submitted.
                     
                  
                  
                     (d)
                     Duration of pilot program
                     
                        (1)
                        In general
                        The Secretary shall carry out the pilot program under subsection (a) for a period of not less than one year.
                     
                     
                        (2)
                        Termination or extension of program
                        At the end of the one-year period specified in paragraph (1), the Secretary may—
                        
                           (A)
                           terminate the pilot program under subsection (a);
                        
                        
                           (B)
                           continue the pilot program;
                        
                        
                           (C)
                           expand the pilot program; or
                        
                        
                           (D)
                           implement the use of a covered health record platform in the Transition Assistance Program throughout the Armed Forces.
                        
                     
                  
                  
                     (e)
                     Prohibition on new appropriations
                     No additional funds are authorized to be appropriated to carry out the requirements of this section. Such requirements shall be carried out using amounts otherwise authorized to be appropriated for the Department of Defense. 
                  
                  
                     (f)
                     Definitions
                     In this section:
                     
                        (1)
                        Covered health record platform
                        The term covered health record platform means a secure personal health record platform that meets the following requirements:
                        
                           (A)
                           Has web-based capabilities.
                        
                        
                           (B)
                           Has the capability to store and share records with the Department of Veterans Affairs or any other designated care provider.
                        
                        
                           (C)
                           Has the capability to store records in the cloud.
                        
                        
                           (D)
                           Does not have a requirement for integration to receive or share records.
                        
                        
                           (E)
                           Has the capability to instantly share data based on a combination of access key and personal identifier.
                        
                        
                           (F)
                           Has the capability to provide secure data storage and records transfer upon separation of a member of the Armed Forces from active duty.
                        
                        
                           (G)
                           Does not require a business associate agreement with any parties.
                        
                        
                           (H)
                           Has secure data isolation with access controls.
                        
                        
                           (I)
                           Has, at a minimum, data security that would require separate encryption for each document, relying on AES256 algorithm with keys encryption using RSA2048 algorithm, or any successor similar algorithm. 
                        
                     
                     
                        (2)
                        Transition Assistance Program
                        The term Transition Assistance Program means the program of the Department of Defense for preseparation counseling, employment assistance, and other transitional services provided under sections 1142 and 1144 of title 10, United States Code. 
                     
                  
               
               
                  568.
                  SKILLBRIDGE: APPRENTICESHIP PROGRAMS
                  
                     (a)
                     Study
                     Not later than September 30, 2025, the Secretary of Defense, in consultation with the Secretary of the department in which the Coast Guard is operating when not operating as a service in the Department of the Navy, shall conduct a study to identify the private entities participating in Skillbridge that offer positions in registered apprenticeship programs to covered members.
                  
                  
                     (b)
                     Recruitment
                     The Secretary of Defense shall consult with officials and employees of the Department of Labor who have experience with registered apprenticeship programs to facilitate the Secretary entering into agreements with entities that offer positions described in subsection (a) in areas where the Secretary determines few such positions are available to covered members.
                  
                  
                     (c)
                     Definitions
                     In this section:
                     
                        (1)
                        The term covered member means a member of the Armed Forces eligible for Skillbridge.
                     
                     
                        (2)
                        The term registered apprenticeship program means an apprenticeship program registered under the Act of August 16, 1937 (commonly known as the National Apprenticeship Act; 50 Stat. 664, chapter 663; 29 U.S.C. 50 et seq.).
                     
                     
                        (3)
                        The term Skillbridge means an employment skills training program under section 1143(e) of title 10, United States Code.
                     
                  
               
               
                  569.
                  TRANSMISSION OF INFORMATION REGARDING MEMBER’S OPIOID USE DISORDER TO DEPARTMENT OF VETERANS AFFAIRS
                  Section 1142(d) of title 10, United States Code, is amended—
                  
                     (1)
                     in the heading, by striking 
                           Transmittal
                         and inserting 
                           Transmission
                        ;
                  
                  
                     (2)
                     by inserting 
                           (1)
                         before In the case; and
                  
                  
                     (3)
                     by adding at the end the following new paragraph:
                     
                        
                           (2)
                           In the case of a member whom the Secretary concerned knows has a history of opioid use disorder, such Secretary concerned shall notify the Secretary of Veterans Affairs of such history within 60 days of the separation. retirement, or discharge of such member.
                        
                        .
                     
                  
               
               
                  569A.
                  REPORT ON THE NUMBER OF VETERANS WHO HAVE THEIR MILITARY ACQUIRED CREDENTIALS RECOGNIZED AT THE STATE-LEVEL FOR THE CIVILIAN WORKFORCE
                  
                     (a)
                     Report
                     Not later than 180 days after the date of enactment of this section, the Secretary of Defense, in consultation with the Secretary of Veterans Affairs and the Secretary of Labor, shall submit to Congress a report that builds on the data reported in the DoD Credentialing Utilization report from 2018 (3-BB02A16) to better assess the effectiveness of the Credentialing Programs for post-military civilian employment. 
                  
                  
                     (b)
                     Matters included
                     The report under subsection (a) shall include the following:
                     
                        (1)
                        An assessment of the number of veterans who successfully transfer their eligible professional credentials to civilian jobs.
                     
                     
                        (2)
                        An assessment of which certifications were most commonly used for post-military civilian employment, such as airplane mechanics.
                     
                     
                        (3)
                        An assessment on any other barriers veterans face to transferring military mechanical skills to State certifications.
                     
                  
                  
                     (c)
                     Definitions
                     In this section:
                     
                        (1)
                        The term applicable licensing authority means the licensing authority by a State for a given vocation in which the veteran works or would like to work.
                     
                     
                        (2)
                        The term eligible professional credential means a professional credential, including a professional credential in the field of airplane mechanics, obtained using expenses paid pursuant to the program under section 2015 of title 10, United States Code.
                     
                     
                        (3)
                        The term expenses has the meaning given such term in such section.
                     
                     
                        (4)
                        The term State means each of the several States and territories and the District of Columbia.
                     
                  
               
               
                  569B.
                  TRAINING AND INTERNSHIPS FOR TRANSITIONING MEMBERS THROUGH INSTITUTIONS OF HIGHER EDUCATION
                  
                     (a)
                     Skillbridge
                     The Secretary of Defense may conduct outreach to institutions of higher education in order to enter into more agreements with such institutions of higher education that may provide training or internships to members of the Armed Forces pursuant to the Skillbridge program established under section 1143(e) of title 10, United States Code.
                  
                  
                     (b)
                     Institution of higher education defined
                     In this section, the term institution of higher education has the meaning given such term in section 101 of the Higher Education Act of 1965 (20 U.S.C. 1001).
                  
               
               
                  569C.
                  OPT-OUT SHARING OF INFORMATION ON MEMBERS RETIRING OR SEPARATING FROM THE ARMED FORCES WITH COMMUNITY-BASED ORGANIZATIONS AND RELATED ENTITIES
                  Section 570F of the National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2020 (Public Law 116–92; 10 U.S.C. 1142 note) is amended—
                  
                     (1)
                     in subsection (c)—
                     
                        (A)
                        by striking out the form to indicate an email address and inserting the following: “out the form to indicate—
                        
                           
                              (1)
                              an email address; and
                           
                           ; and
                        
                     
                     
                        (B)
                        by adding at the end the following new paragraph:
                        
                           
                              (2)
                              if the individual would like to opt-out of the transmittal of the individual’s information to and through a State veterans agency as described in subsection (a).
                           
                           ; and
                        
                     
                  
                  
                     (2)
                     by amending subsection (d) to read as follows:
                     
                        
                           (d)
                           Opt-Out of information sharing
                           Information on an individual shall be transmitted to and through a State veterans agency as described in subsection (a) unless the individual indicates pursuant to subsection (c)(2) that the individual would like to opt out of such transmittal.
                        
                        .
                     
                  
               
               
                  569D.
                  ADDRESSING MENTAL HEALTH ISSUES IN THE TRANSITION ASSISTANCE PROGRAM OF THE DEPARTMENT OF DEFENSE AND THE SOLID START PROGRAM OF THE DEPARTMENT OF VETERANS AFFAIRS
                  
                     (a)
                     Transition Assistance Program of the Department of Defense
                     Section 1142(b) of title 10, United States Code, is amended—
                     
                        (1)
                        in paragraph (5), by inserting (11), before and (16); and
                     
                     
                        (2)
                        by striking paragraph (11) and inserting the following:
                        
                           
                              (11)
                              Information concerning mental health, including—
                              
                                 (A)
                                 the availability of mental health services furnished by the Secretary concerned, the Secretary of Defense, the Secretary of Veterans Affairs, or a non-profit entity;
                              
                              
                                 (B)
                                 the treatment of post-traumatic stress disorder, traumatic brain injury, anxiety disorders, depression, chronic pain, sleep disorders, suicidal ideation, or other mental health conditions associated with service in the armed forces;
                              
                              
                                 (C)
                                 the risk of suicide, including signs, symptoms, and risk factors (including adverse childhood experiences, depression, bipolar disorder, homelessness, unemployment, and relationship strain);
                              
                              
                                 (D)
                                 the availability of treatment options and resources to address substance abuse, including alcohol, prescription drug, and opioid abuse;
                              
                              
                                 (E)
                                 the potential effects of the loss of community and support systems experienced by a member separating from the armed forces;
                              
                              
                                 (F)
                                 isolation from family, friends, or society; and
                              
                              
                                 (G)
                                 the potential stressors associated with separation from the armed forces.
                              
                           
                           .
                        
                     
                  
                  
                     (b)
                     Solid Start program of the Department of Veterans Affairs
                     Section 6320(b)(1) of title 38, United States Code, is amended—
                     
                        (1)
                        by redesignating subparagraphs (G) and (H) as subparagraphs (I) and (J), respectively; and
                     
                     
                        (2)
                        by inserting after subparagraph (F) the following new subparagraphs:
                        
                           
                              (G)
                              assisting eligible veterans who elect to enroll in the system of patient enrollment under section 1705(a) of this title;
                           
                           
                              (H)
                              educating veterans about mental health and counseling services available through the Veterans Health Administration;
                           
                           .
                        
                     
                  
                  
                     (c)
                     Report
                     Not later than one year after the date of the enactment of this Act, the Secretary of Defense and the Secretary of Veterans Affairs shall jointly submit to the appropriate congressional committees a report on the information and materials developed pursuant to the amendments made by this section.
                  
                  
                     (d)
                     Appropriate congressional committees defined
                     In this section, the term appropriate congressional committees means—
                     
                        (1)
                        the Committee on Armed Services and the Committee on Veterans’ Affairs of the Senate; and
                     
                     
                        (2)
                        the Committee on Armed Services and the Committee on Veterans’ Affairs of the House of Representatives.
                     
                  
               
               
                  569E.
                  AMENDMENTS TO PATHWAYS FOR COUNSELING IN TRANSITION ASSISTANCE PROGRAM
                  Section 1142(c)(1) of title 10, United States Code, is amended—
                  
                     (1)
                     by redesignating subparagraph (M) as subparagraph (R); and
                  
                  
                     (2)
                     by inserting after subparagraph (L) the following:
                     
                        
                           (M)
                           Child care requirements of the member (including whether a dependent of the member is enrolled in the Exceptional Family Member Program).
                        
                        
                           (N)
                           The employment status of other adults in the household of the member.
                        
                        
                           (O)
                           The location of the duty station of the member (including whether the member was separated from family while on duty).
                        
                        
                           (P)
                           The effects of operating tempo and personnel tempo on the member and the household of the member.
                        
                        
                           (Q)
                           Whether the member is an Indian or urban Indian, as those terms are defined in section 4 of the Indian Health Care Improvement Act (Public Law 94–437; 25 U.S.C. 1603).
                        
                        .
                     
                  
               
               
                  569F.
                  RECORDS OF A SEPARATING MEMBER: PROVISION OF ELECTRONIC COPIES
                  Section 1142 of title 10, United States Code, is amended—
                  
                     (1)
                     in subsection (d)—
                     
                        (A)
                        by inserting 
                              (1)
                            before In the case; and
                     
                     
                        (B)
                        by adding at the end the following new paragraph:
                        
                           
                              (2)
                              The Secretary concerned shall provide to a member described in subsection (a) an electronic copy of the member's service medical record not later than 30 days before the member separates, retires, or is discharged.
                           
                           ; and
                        
                     
                  
                  
                     (2)
                     by adding at the end the following new subsection:
                     
                        
                           (f)
                           Separation documents
                           The Secretary concerned shall provide to a member described in subsection (a) an electronic copy of the member’s separation documents (including a Certificate of Release or Discharge from Active Duty (DD Form 214)) not later than 15 days after such member separates, retires, or is discharged.
                        
                        .
                     
                  
               
               
                  569G.
                  SKILLBRIDGE FOR THE SUBMARINE INDUSTRIAL BASE
                  
                     (a)
                     In general
                     Not later than September 30, 2025, the Secretary concerned shall—
                     
                        (1)
                        conduct a survey to determine which such employers in the submarine industrial base are experiencing workforce shortages; and
                     
                     
                        (2)
                        use the Skillbridge program to provide members training under such program with such employers.
                     
                  
                  
                     (b)
                     Preference
                     In selecting an employer under subsection (a), the Secretary concerned shall give preference to smaller employers.
                  
                  
                     (c)
                     Report
                     Not later than one year after the date of the enactment of this Act, the Secretary of Defense shall submit to the Committees on Armed Services of the Senate and House of Representatives a report on implementation of this section.
                  
               
            
            
               H
               Family Programs, Child Care, and Dependent Education
               
                  571.
                  STAFFING OF DEPARTMENT OF DEFENSE EDUCATION ACTIVITY SCHOOLS TO MAINTAIN MAXIMUM STUDENT-TO-TEACHER RATIOS
                  Section 589B(c) of the William M. (Mac) Thornberry National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2021 (Public Law 116–283; 134 Stat. 3659) is amended by striking 2023-2024 academic year and inserting 2029-2030 academic year.
               
               
                  572.
                  IMPROVEMENTS TO CERTAIN SCHOOLS OF THE DEPARTMENT OF DEFENSE EDUCATION ACTIVITY
                  
                     (a)
                     Training requirements teachers in 21st century schools of the Department of Defense Education Activity
                     
                        (1)
                        In general
                        The Secretary of Defense, acting through the Director of the Department of Defense Education Activity, shall require each teacher in a 21st century school to undergo training in accordance with this subsection.
                     
                     
                        (2)
                        Content
                        The training required under paragraph (1) shall consist of specialized instruction to provide teachers with the skills necessary to effectively teach in a 21st century school environment, including instruction in—
                        
                           (A)
                           understanding and using the physical space of a 21st century school classroom;
                        
                        
                           (B)
                           building the relationships necessary to succeed, including relationships with students and other teachers;
                        
                        
                           (C)
                           the curriculum and level of academic rigor necessary to increase student learning;
                        
                        
                           (D)
                           other skills necessary to support the academic achievement and social and emotional well being of students; and
                        
                        
                           (E)
                           such other topics as the Secretary and the Director determine appropriate. 
                        
                     
                     
                        (3)
                        Frequency
                        The training required under paragraph (1) shall be provided as follows:
                        
                           (A)
                           In the case of a teacher who has been assigned to a 21st century school, but has not commenced teaching in such school, the training shall be provided before the teacher commences teaching in such school.
                        
                        
                           (B)
                           In the case of a teacher who previously taught in a 21st century school, but subsequently taught in a school that is not a 21st century school for one or more school years, such training shall be provided before the teacher resumes teaching in a 21st Century School.
                        
                        
                           (C)
                           In the case of a teacher who is teaching in a 21st century school as of the date of the enactment of this Act, such training shall be provided not later than 180 days after such date of enactment.
                        
                        
                           (D)
                           In the case of a teacher who teaches in a 21st century school on an ongoing basis, and who previously received training under this subsection, such training shall be provided not less frequently than once every three years.
                        
                     
                  
                  
                     (b)
                     Authorization of bonus payments for certain teachers in high-need schools
                     
                        (1)
                        In general
                        The Secretary of Defense, acting through the Director of the Department of Defense Education Activity, is authorized to pay a bonus to an individual who—
                        
                           (A)
                           meets the eligibility requirements under paragraph (2); and
                        
                        
                           (B)
                           enters into a service agreement under paragraph (3) pursuant to which the individual agrees to serve as a teacher in a high-need school.
                        
                     
                     
                        (2)
                        Eligibility
                        The Secretary may pay a bonus under this subsection to an individual only if the individual—
                        
                           (A)
                           is newly appointed as an employee of the Department of Defense Education Activity; or
                        
                        
                           (B)
                           
                              (i)
                              is currently employed by the Activity; and
                           
                           
                              (ii)
                              accepts an Activity teaching position in a high-need school.
                           
                        
                     
                     
                        (3)
                        Service agreement
                        To be eligible to receive a bonus under this subsection, an individual shall enter into a contract or other agreement with the Secretary of Defense pursuant to which the individual agrees to serve as a teacher in a high-need school. Such contract or other agreement shall specify—
                        
                           (A)
                           the commencement and termination dates of the required service period;
                        
                        
                           (B)
                           the location of the service;
                        
                        
                           (C)
                           the amount of the bonus; and
                        
                        
                           (D)
                           the terms of repayment, in accordance with paragraph (6), if the employee fails to complete the required service period.
                        
                     
                     
                        (4)
                        Amount
                        The amount of each bonus under this subsection shall be determined by the Secretary of Defense.
                     
                     
                        (5)
                        Disbursement
                        Each bonus under this subsection shall be disbursed as a lump sum payment made at or before the commencement of an individual’s required service period as set forth in the agreement under paragraph (3).
                     
                     
                        (6)
                        Repayment
                        
                           (A)
                           In general
                           Except as provided in subparagraph (B), an individual who receives a bonus under this subsection and who does not complete the term of the required service period specified in the agreement under paragraph (3) shall repay such bonus to the Secretary of Defense in a pro rata manner.
                        
                        
                           (B)
                           Waiver
                           The Secretary of Defense may waive the requirement to repay a bonus under subparagraph (A) on a case-by-case basis. 
                        
                     
                     
                        (7)
                        Exclusion from basic pay
                        A bonus under this subsection is not part of the basic pay of an employee for any purpose.
                     
                     
                        (8)
                        Sunset
                        The authority of the Secretary of Defense to pay bonuses under this subsection shall terminate five years after the date of the enactment of this Act.
                     
                  
                  
                     (c)
                     Pilot program on use of Department of State Standardized Regulations education allowance in Bahrain
                     
                        (1)
                        In general
                        The Secretary of Defense, acting through the Director of the Department of Defense Education Activity, shall carry out a pilot program under which a qualified individual may receive and use the Department of State Standardized Regulations education allowance to pay for a dependent child of such individual to attend a non-DODEA school in Bahrain for the applicable school year.
                     
                     
                        (2)
                        Maximum number of participants
                        Participation in the pilot program under this subsection shall be limited to—
                        
                           (A)
                           not more than 15 qualified individuals; and
                        
                        
                           (B)
                           a total of not more than 30 dependent children of such individuals.
                        
                     
                     
                        (3)
                        Exception to prohibition
                        Any prohibition on the use of the Department of State Standardized Regulations education allowance in an area served by a school operated by the Department of Defense Education Activity shall not apply to a qualified individual participating in the pilot program under this subsection.
                     
                     
                        (4)
                        Termination
                        The authority of the Secretary of Defense to carry out the pilot program under this subsection shall terminate at the conclusion of the applicable school year.
                     
                  
                  
                     (d)
                     Definitions
                     In this section:
                     
                        (1)
                        The term 21st century school means a school facility operated by the Department of Defense Education Activity that has been constructed or modernized pursuant to the 21st Century Schools Program of the Activity.
                     
                     
                        (2)
                        The term applicable school year means the first school year beginning after the date of the enactment of this Act. 
                     
                     
                        (3)
                        The term high-need school means a school operated by the Department of Defense Education Activity that—
                        
                           (A)
                           is located outside the United States; and
                        
                        
                           (B)
                           has difficulty in recruiting or retaining teachers, as determined by the Secretary of Defense. 
                        
                     
                     
                        (4)
                        The term non-DODEA school means a school that is not operated by the Department of Defense Education Activity.
                     
                     
                        (5)
                        The term qualified individual means an individual who—
                        
                           (A)
                           
                              (i)
                              is a member of the Armed Forces serving on active duty and stationed in Bahrain pursuant to a permanent change of station order; or
                           
                           
                              (ii)
                              is a civilian employee of the Department of Defense who—
                              
                                 (I)
                                 is employed on a permanent full-time basis;
                              
                              
                                 (II)
                                 is stationed in Bahrain; and
                              
                              
                                 (III)
                                 is a citizen or a national of the United States;
                              
                           
                        
                        
                           (B)
                           is authorized to transport the dependent child of such individual to and from Bahrain at the expense of the Federal Government; and
                        
                        
                           (C)
                           receives a housing allowance for living quarters in Bahrain.
                        
                     
                     
                        (6)
                        The term United States means each of the several States and the District of Columbia.
                     
                  
               
               
                  573.
                  PROHIBITION ON DIVERSITY, EQUITY, AND INCLUSION POLICY BODIES FOR DODEA SCHOOLS
                  The Secretary of Defense may not establish or maintain any committee, panel, office, or other organization with responsibility for matters relating to diversity, equity, and inclusion in schools operated by the Department of Defense Education Activity.
               
               
                  574.
                  DODEA OVERSEAS TRANSFER PROGRAM
                  
                     (a)
                     In general
                     Not later than April 1, 2025, the Secretary of Defense, in coordination with the Director of Department of Defense Education Activity (in this section referred to as DoDEA), shall develop and implement a transfer program under which DoDEA educators may transfer to DoDEA overseas locations.
                  
                  
                     (b)
                     Requirements
                     The program established under this section—
                     
                        (1)
                        shall not require a DoDEA educator to teach in the United States prior to transfer; 
                     
                     
                        (2)
                        shall be subject to collective bargaining agreements between DoDEA and their employees; and
                     
                     
                        (3)
                        shall be carried out subject to current law. 
                     
                  
                  
                     (c)
                     Briefing
                     The Secretary of Defense shall brief the congressional defense committees on the transfer program established under this section not later than January 31, 2025, and, after implementing such program, not later than April 1, 2025.
                  
               
               
                  575.
                  CERTAIN ASSISTANCE TO LOCAL EDUCATIONAL AGENCIES THAT BENEFIT DEPENDENTS OF MILITARY AND CIVILIAN PERSONNEL
                  
                     (a)
                     Continuation of authority to assist local educational agencies that benefit dependents of members of the Armed Forces and Department of Defense civilian employees
                     Of the amount authorized to be appropriated for fiscal year 2025 by section 301 and available for operation and maintenance for Defense-wide activities as specified in the funding table in section 4301, $50,000,000 shall be available only for the purpose of providing assistance to local educational agencies under subsection (a) of section 572 of the National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2006 (Public Law 109–163; 20 U.S.C. 7703b).
                  
                  
                     (b)
                     Impact aid for children with severe disabilities
                     Of the amount authorized to be appropriated for fiscal year 2025 pursuant to section 301 and available for operation and maintenance for Defense-wide activities as specified in the funding table in section 4301, $20,000,000 shall be available for payments under section 363 of the Floyd D. Spence National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2001 (as enacted into law by Public Law 106–398; 114 Stat. 1654A–77; 20 U.S.C. 7703a).
                  
                  
                     (c)
                     Local educational agency defined
                     In this section, the term local educational agency has the meaning given that term in section 7013(9) of the Elementary and Secondary Education Act of 1965 (20 U.S.C. 7713(9)).
                  
               
               
                  576.
                  VERIFICATION OF REPORTING OF ELIGIBLE FEDERALLY CONNECTED CHILDREN FOR PURPOSES OF FEDERAL IMPACT AID PROGRAMS
                  
                     (a)
                     Certification
                     On an annual basis, each commander of a military installation under the jurisdiction of the Secretary of a military department shall submit to such Secretary a written certification verifying whether the commander has confirmed the information contained in all impact aid source check forms received from local educational agencies as of the date of such certification.
                  
                  
                     (b)
                     Report
                     Not later June 30 of each year, each Secretary of a military department shall submit to the congressional defense committees a report, based on the information received under subsection (a), that identifies—
                     
                        (1)
                        each military installation under the jurisdiction of such Secretary that has confirmed the information contained in all impact aid source check forms received from local educational agencies as of the date of the report; and
                     
                     
                        (2)
                        each military installation that has not confirmed the information contained in such forms as of such date.
                     
                  
                  
                     (c)
                     Definitions
                     In this section:
                     
                        (1)
                        The term impact aid source check form means a form submitted to a military installation by a local educational agency to confirm the number and identity of children eligible to be counted for purposes of the Federal impact aid program under section 7003(a) of the Elementary and Secondary Education Act of 1965 (20 U.S.C. 7703(a)).
                     
                     
                        (2)
                        The term local educational agency has the meaning given that term in section 8101 of the Elementary and Secondary Education Act of 1965 (20 U.S.C. 7801).
                     
                  
               
               
                  577.
                  PILOT PROGRAM TO ESTABLISH INCLUSIVE PLAYGROUNDS FOR MILITARY FAMILIES ENROLLED IN EXCEPTIONAL FAMILY MEMBER PROGRAM OF THE DEPARTMENT OF DEFENSE
                  
                     (a)
                     Establishment
                     
                        (1)
                        In general
                        Not later than January 1, 2026, the Under Secretary of Defense for Personnel and Readiness (in this section referred to as the Under Secretary) shall establish a military families playground pilot program (in this section referred to as the Program) to design, develop, and construct playgrounds that directly support families enrolled in the Exceptional Family Member Program to increase the accessibility and inclusivity of access to playgrounds on military installations.
                     
                     
                        (2)
                        Governing body
                        
                           (A)
                           In general
                           The Under Secretary of Defense, the Secretaries of the military departments, and any other individual that the Secretary of Defense considers appropriate, shall form a governing body to oversee and be responsible for administration of the Program.
                        
                        
                           (B)
                           Inclusion of EFMP community
                           The governing body required by subparagraph (A) shall, at a minimum, include one representative of families enrolled in the Exceptional Family Member Program.
                        
                     
                     
                        (3)
                        Objective
                        The objective of the Program is to create a more accessible and inclusive environment for military families, especially families enrolled in the Exceptional Family Member Program, by designing, developing, and constructing inclusive playgrounds that—
                        
                           (A)
                           incorporate the principles of universal access and design;
                        
                        
                           (B)
                           welcome children and families to develop physically, cognitively, socially, and emotionally;
                        
                        
                           (C)
                           are accessible and ensure all children, including children with visible and non-visible disabilities (as defined in section 3 of the Americans with Disabilities Act of 1990 (42 U.S.C. 12102)), have play options to help such children grow and learn; and
                        
                        
                           (D)
                           balance a play experience that is beneficial to all children, including children with visible and non-visible disabilities, at all stages of development and at all levels of sensory engagement.
                        
                     
                     
                        (4)
                        Administration
                        In carrying out the Program, the Under Secretary shall—
                        
                           (A)
                           select not fewer than 6 military installations located within a State, the District of Columbia, or a territory or possession of the United States that have the largest communities of families enrolled in the Exceptional Family Member Program;
                        
                        
                           (B)
                           design, develop, and construct one inclusive playground at each military installation selected under subparagraph (A); and
                        
                        
                           (C)
                           establish policies, procedures, and standards for developing and constructing inclusive playgrounds under the Program.
                        
                     
                     
                        (5)
                        Upgrading existing playgrounds
                        The Under Secretary may carry out the requirement under paragraph (4)(B) to construct an inclusive playground at each military installation selected under paragraph (4)(A) by upgrading an existing playground at the installation to meet the requirements of the Program.
                     
                  
                  
                     (b)
                     Strategy
                     
                        (1)
                        In general
                        Not later than March 28, 2025, the Under Secretary shall submit to the Committees on Armed Services of the Senate and the House of Representatives a strategy for the implementation of the Program.
                     
                     
                        (2)
                        Elements
                        The strategy required by paragraph (1) shall include the following:
                        
                           (A)
                           A governance structure for the Program, including—
                           
                              (i)
                              the officials tasked with oversight of the Program;
                           
                           
                              (ii)
                              the format of the governing body of the Program established under subsection (a)(2);
                           
                           
                              (iii)
                              the functions and duties of the governing body with respect to establishing and maintaining the Program; and
                           
                           
                              (iv)
                              mechanisms for coordinating with the military departments.
                           
                        
                        
                           (B)
                           With respect to the selection of military installations under subsection (a)(4)—
                           
                              (i)
                              an identification of each military installation;
                           
                           
                              (ii)
                              the rationale for selecting each military installation; and
                           
                           
                              (iii)
                              any other information the Under Secretary considers appropriate.
                           
                        
                        
                           (C)
                           A description of objectives for the first 3 fiscal years of the Program, including—
                           
                              (i)
                              a description of, and a rational for selecting, those objectives;
                           
                           
                              (ii)
                              an identification of milestones toward achieving those objectives; and
                           
                           
                              (iii)
                              metrics for evaluating success in achieving those objectives.
                           
                        
                        
                           (D)
                           A description of opportunities and potential timelines for future expansion of the Program, as appropriate.
                        
                        
                           (E)
                           A list of additional authorities, appropriations, or other support from Congress necessary to ensure the success of the Program.
                        
                        
                           (F)
                           Any other information the Under Secretary considers appropriate.
                        
                     
                  
               
               
                  578.
                  PARENTAL RIGHT TO NOTICE OF STUDENT NONPROFICIENCY IN READING OR LANGUAGE ARTS
                  The Secretary of Defense shall ensure that each elementary school operated by the Department of Defense Education Activity notifies the parents of any student enrolled in such school when the student does not score as grade-level proficient in reading or language arts at the end of the third grade based on the reading or language arts assessments administered under section 1111(b)(2)(B)(v)(I)(aa) of the Elementary and Secondary Education Act of 1965 (20 U.S.C. 6311(b)(2)(B)(v)(I)(aa)) or another assessment administered to all third grade students by such school.
               
               
                  579.
                  INSTRUCTION IN ARTIFICIAL INTELLIGENCE AND MACHINE LEARNING IN SCHOOLS OPERATED BY THE DEPARTMENT OF DEFENSE EDUCATION ACTIVITY
                  
                     (a)
                     In general
                     The Secretary of Defense, acting through the Director of the Department of Defense Education Activity, shall require that each student of a high school operated by the Activity receives instruction in artificial intelligence and machine learning, including instruction in—
                     
                        (1)
                        the foundational concepts of artificial intelligence and machine learning;
                     
                     
                        (2)
                        definitions of artificial intelligence and machine learning;
                     
                     
                        (3)
                        the responsible and ethical use of artificial intelligence and machine learning applications; and
                     
                     
                        (4)
                        such other topics relating to artificial intelligence and machine learning as the Secretary determines appropriate. 
                     
                  
                  
                     (b)
                     Form of instruction
                     The instruction required under subsection (a) may be incorporated into one or more existing courses taught at high schools operated by the Department of Defense Education Activity.
                  
                  
                     (c)
                     Applicability
                     The requirement to provide the instruction described in subsection (a) shall apply beginning with the first school year that begins after the date of the enactment of this Act. 
                  
                  
                     (d)
                     Definitions
                     In this section, the term high school has the meaning given that term in section 8101 of the Elementary and Secondary Education Act of 1965 (20 U.S.C. 7801).
                  
               
               
                  579A.
                  GAO STUDY ON CHILD CARE SERVICES PROVIDED OR PAID FOR BY THE DEPARTMENT OF DEFENSE
                  
                     (a)
                     Study
                     The Comptroller General of the United States shall carry out a study to assess the child care programs of the Department of Defense, including military child development centers, family home day care, Military Child Care in Your Neighborhood, and Child Care in Your Home.
                  
                  
                     (b)
                     Report
                     Not later than six months after the date of the enactment of this Act, the Comptroller General shall submit to the congressional defense committees a report regarding the results of the study under subsection (a). Such report shall include the following information, disaggregated by covered Armed Force:
                     
                        (1)
                        The period of time military families in each priority category are on a waiting list from the time of submitting a request on militarychildcare.com until the time of final approval.
                     
                     
                        (2)
                        The percentage of military families that submitted a request for child care services through militarychildcare.com and did not receive an offer within three months of the date requested.
                     
                     
                        (3)
                        The average percentage of annual income a military family spends on child care per child.
                     
                     
                        (4)
                        The percentage of military families that require more than one such child care program to meet child care needs.
                     
                     
                        (5)
                        The current amount allocated to each covered Armed Force for the Military Child Care in Your Neighborhood and Child Care in Your Home programs.
                     
                     
                        (6)
                        How much of the amount described in paragraph (5) is spent on—
                        
                           (A)
                           administration;
                        
                        
                           (B)
                           child care services for military families.
                        
                     
                  
                  
                     (c)
                     Definitions
                     In this section:
                     
                        (1)
                        The term covered Armed Force means the Army, Navy, Marine Corps, Air Force, or Space Force.
                     
                     
                        (2)
                        The terms military child development center and family home day care have the meanings given such terms in section 1800 of title 10, United States Code.
                     
                  
               
               
                  579B.
                  PROHIBITION ON AVAILABILITY OF FUNDS FOR CERTAIN MATERIALS IN SCHOOLS OPERATED BY THE DEPARTMENT OF DEFENSE EDUCATION ACTIVITY
                  
                     (a)
                     Prohibition on pornography and radical gender ideology
                     None of the funds authorized to be appropriated by this Act or otherwise mad available for fiscal year 2025 or any fiscal year thereafter for the Department of Defense Education Activity may be obligated or expended to purchase, maintain, or display in a school library or classroom—
                     
                        (1)
                        any material that contains, depicts, or otherwise includes pornographic content; or
                     
                     
                        (2)
                        any material that espouses, advocates, or promotes radical gender ideology.
                     
                  
                  
                     (b)
                     Deadline for removal
                     The Director of the Department of Defense Education Activity shall ensure that any material described in subsection (a) that this is in a library or classroom of a school operated by the Activity is removed not later than 30 days after the date of the enactment of this Act.
                  
                  
                     (c)
                     Definitions
                     In this section:
                     
                        (1)
                        The term pornographic content means any virtual-reality technology, video, image, drawing, sound, instruction, reading material, writing material, presented via any medium in a classroom, school library, on school grounds, or as part of a school-sponsored or school-affiliated event that depicts, describes, or presents, in whole or in part—
                        
                           (A)
                           nudity, sex organs, or sexual acts;
                        
                        
                           (B)
                           obscenity;
                        
                        
                           (C)
                           indecent material (as defined by the Secretary of Defense taking into consideration applicable Federal regulations); or
                        
                        
                           (D)
                           lewd or sexual acts in a manner intended to cause sexual arousal.
                        
                     
                     
                        (2)
                        The term radical gender ideology means any concept, teaching, instruction, or curriculum that—
                        
                           (A)
                           states or suggests biological sex is a social construct;
                        
                        
                           (B)
                           states or suggests biological sex is fluid, interchangeable, or exists beyond the binary of male and female;
                        
                        
                           (C)
                           states or suggests that an individual can be trapped in the wrong body or have a different identity than that of their biological sex;
                        
                        
                           (D)
                           encourages, promotes, or advocates the use of personal pronouns unaligned with an individual’s biological sex; or
                        
                        
                           (E)
                           encourages, promotes, or advocates hormone replacement, puberty blockers, or gender reassignment surgery as a safe, necessary, or optional treatment for an individual.
                        
                     
                  
               
               
                  579C.
                  PROHIBITIONS ON PROVISION OF GENDER TRANSITION SERVICES THROUGH AN EXCEPTIONAL FAMILY MEMBER PROGRAM OF THE ARMED FORCES
                  
                     (a)
                     In general
                     No gender transition procedures, including surgery or medication, may be provided to a minor dependent child through an EFMP.
                  
                  
                     (b)
                     Referrals
                     No referral for procedures described in subsection (a) may be provided to a minor dependent child through an EFMP.
                  
                  
                     (c)
                     Reassignment
                     No change of duty station may be approved through an EFMP for the purpose of providing a minor dependent child with access to procedures described in subsection (a).
                  
                  
                     (d)
                     EFMP defined
                     In this section, the term EFMP means the program referred to as the Exceptional Family Member Program under section 1781c(d)(4)(I) of title 10, United States Code.
                  
               
               
                  579D.
                  REPORT ON SEPARATING MEMBERS WHO HAVE HEALTH CARE EXPERIENCE AND MEDICAL RESERVE CORPS
                  By not later than 180 days after the date of the enactment of this Act, the Secretary of Defense, in consultation with the Secretary of Health and Human Services, shall submit to the Committees on Armed Services of the Senate and House of Representatives a report on the process by which members of the Armed Forces with health care experience transition to civilian life and the number such members who join the Medical Reserve Corps.
               
               
                  579E.
                  PROHIBITION OF TIKTOK
                  The Director of the Department of Defense Education Activity shall publish guidance prohibiting the use of TikTok for instructional purposes at schools operated by the Department of Defense Education Activity. 
               
               
                  579F.
                  REPORT ON EFFECTIVENESS OF THE EXCEPTIONAL FAMILY MEMBER PROGRAM
                  Not later than 1 year after the date of the enactment of this Act, the Comptroller General of the United States shall submit to Congress a report that includes—
                  
                     (1)
                     the results of a study of the effectiveness of the Exceptional Family Member program authorized under section 1781c(e) of title 10, United States Code, with respect to the manner by which it currently supports individuals with intellectual and developmental disabilities; and
                  
                  
                     (2)
                     recommendations to improve the program.
                  
               
               
                  579G.
                  STUDY ON HIGH-IMPACT TUTORING IN DODEA SCHOOLS
                  Not later than September 30, 2025, the Secretary of Defense shall submit to the Committees on Armed Services of the Senate and House of Representatives a report containing the results of a study on—
                  
                     (1)
                     the current usage of tutoring programs in Department of Defense Education Activity elementary and secondary schools;
                  
                  
                     (2)
                     the extent to which current tutoring programs in Department of Defense Education Activity elementary and secondary schools incorporate elements of high-impact tutoring, including tutoring that—
                     
                        (A)
                        is in math, reading, or both subjects for at least 30 minutes during the school day and for at least 3 days per week during the school year;
                     
                     
                        (B)
                        is taught by a licensed Department of Defense Education Activity elementary or secondary school teacher or paraprofessional with a student-to-tutor ratio of no more than 3-to-1;
                     
                     
                        (C)
                        is on a set schedule and with the same tutor each week;
                     
                     
                        (D)
                        in the case of tutoring that takes place during a regular class, occurs in a classroom or area that is separate from such regular class; and
                     
                     
                        (E)
                        with respect to a student, is related to and aligned with the classwork in the student’s regular classes;
                     
                  
                  
                     (3)
                     how to increase the participation of students enrolled in Department of Defense Education Activity elementary and secondary schools in tutoring programs, particularly those tutoring programs with the elements described in paragraph (2), while not reducing funds available for existing Department of Defense Education Activity programs and teacher and staff compensation; and
                  
                  
                     (4)
                     how to develop a licensed tutoring workforce for Department of Defense Education Activity elementary and secondary schools.
                  
               
            
            
               I
               Decorations and Awards
               
                  581.
                  AUTHORIZATION FOR AWARD OF MEDAL OF HONOR TO E. ROYCE WILLIAMS FOR ACTS OF VALOR DURING THE KOREAN WAR
                  
                     (a)
                     Waiver of time limitations
                     Notwithstanding the time limitations specified in section 8298 of title 10, United States Code, or any other time limitation with respect to the awarding of certain medals to persons who served in the Armed Forces, the President may award the Medal of Honor under section 8291 of such title to E. Royce Williams for the acts of valor described in subsection (b).
                  
                  
                     (b)
                     Acts of valor described
                     The acts of valor described in this subsection are the actions of E. Royce Williams,—
                     
                        (1)
                         as a lieutenant in the Navy, on November 18, 1952, for which he was previously awarded the Navy Cross and the Taegeuk Order of Military Merit of South Korea; and
                     
                     
                        (2)
                        as an Ace fighter pilot who shot down multiple MiG aircraft.
                     
                  
               
               
                  582.
                  AUTHORIZATION FOR AWARD OF THE MEDAL OF HONOR TO THOMAS H. GRIFFIN FOR ACTS OF VALOR AS A MEMBER OF THE ARMY DURING THE VIETNAM WAR
                  
                     (a)
                     Acts of valor described
                     Congress recognizes the following acts of valor by Thomas Helmut Griffin:
                     
                        (1)
                        Thomas Helmut Griffin distinguished himself by valorous actions against overwhelming odds while serving as a captain in the Army, Senior Advisor, 4/5 Infantry Battalion, 2nd Infantry Division, Army of the Republic of Vietnam.
                     
                     
                        (2)
                        From March 1, 1969 through March 3, 1969, during the Vietnam War, such battalion was ordered to forestall an imminent attack on Quang Ngai City threatened by units of the North Vietnamese Army (hereinafter, NVA). The 4/5 Battalion engaged unabatedly with an entrenched NVA regiment over the course of three days. Captain Griffin (hereinafter, CPT Griffin) risked his life and disregarded his personal safety, all above and beyond his duty, on some 20 occasions, to lead his battalion in the fight as well as direct gunships, air, and artillery strikes on the enemy positions.
                     
                     
                        (3)
                        During the initial phase of battle, CPT Griffin made numerous trips across 50 meters of open ground, while under heavy automatic weapon, rocket, and small arms fire, to advise on the conduct of the battle and better direct strikes against enemy forces. Fearing slaughter of his soldiers, CPT Griffin, with one of his counterparts from the Army of the Republic of Vietnam (hereinafter, ARVN), charged directly into heavy enemy fire and assaulted a machine gun bunker. CPT Griffin continued these runs, despite the enemy shooting the heels off CPT Griffin’s boots.
                     
                     
                        (4)
                        After taking out the NVA bunker, CPT Griffin brandished the captured machine gun and rocket launcher to exhort his battalion out of the kill zone and continue the assault into the enemy entrenchments while remaining exposed to heavy fire. CPT Griffin’s raw and intense close combat leadership galvanized his battalion to move out of the kill zone and continue their mission.
                     
                     
                        (5)
                        CPT Griffin’s ARVN counterpart was struck by close fire, and CPT Griffin unhesitatingly carried the wounded commander to safety while shielding him with his own body against rocket and artillery fire. CPT Griffin proceeded to carry four more wounded soldiers to safety while protecting them with his own body, returning each time against devastating enemy fire. While leading the final attack, CPT Griffin was hit three times in the chest by enemy small arms fire, yet continued to lead at the forefront of his battalion until the mission was completed. Under CPT Griffin’s command and leadership, the 4/5 Battalion continued to reduce the enemy regiment’s fighting capacity.
                     
                     
                        (6)
                        CPT Griffin’s personal leadership in intense close combat resulted in a major win for his battalion against overwhelming odds, killing 93 enemy soldiers and saving the lives of over 300 allied soldiers by galvanizing and leading them out of the kill zone.
                     
                     
                        (7)
                        CPT Griffin’s selfless devotion to duty, his extraordinary heroism, conspicuous gallantry and intrepidity, and numerous risks of his life above and beyond the call of duty, are all in keeping with the highest traditions of the Army, and reflect great credit on himself, the Armed Forces, and the United States.
                     
                  
                  
                     (b)
                     Findings
                     Congress finds the following with regards to the original decision to award a Silver Star to Thomas Helmut Griffin:
                     
                        (1)
                        When awarding him the Silver Star, CPT Griffin’s chain of command was unaware of the full extent of his valorous actions and the numerous risks he took for his soldiers, all above and beyond the call of duty.
                     
                     
                        (2)
                        Congress notes that although CPT Griffin was struck three times by enemy fire, and at one point was completely surrounded by the enemy, he continued to fight and lead his battalion against devastating and overwhelming enemy fire.
                     
                     
                        (3)
                        Congress notes that CPT Griffin’s Commanding Officer, Colonel Dean E. Hutter (ret.), sent a letter to the Department of the Army dated November 6, 2013, in which he accounts for the revelation of additional, substantive and material evidence not known at the time of the decision to award the Silver Star, and in which he describes as compelling the justice of upgrading CPT Griffin’s sustained and varied acts of combat valor to their rightful level of recognition, the Medal of Honor.
                     
                     
                        (4)
                        Congress further notes that Colonel Hutter issued a letter to former United States Representative Sam Farr on September 15, 2011, noting his support for an upgrade from a Silver Star to a Medal of Honor, having recognized CPT Griffin’s acts of valor as, numerous, selfless demonstrations of personal risk in pressing a close-combat attack against a well-entrenched element of a battalion-size enemy formation.
                     
                  
                  
                     (c)
                     Authorization of award of medal of honor to Thomas Helmut Griffin for acts of valor as a member of the Army during the Vietnam War
                     
                        (1)
                        Authorization
                        Notwithstanding the time limitations specified in section 7274 of title 10, United States Code, or any other time limitation with respect to the awarding of certain medals to persons who served in the Armed Forces, the President is authorized to award the Medal of Honor, under section 7271 of such title, to Thomas Helmut Griffin for the acts of valor described in subsection (b).
                     
                     
                        (2)
                        Acts of valor described
                        The acts of valor described in this subsection are the actions of Thomas H. Griffin during the period of March 1 through March 3, 1969, while serving as a captain in the Army during the Vietnam War, for which he was previously awarded the Silver Star.
                     
                  
               
               
                  583.
                  AUTHORIZATION FOR AWARD OF MEDAL OF HONOR TO JAMES CAPERS, JR. FOR ACTS OF VALOR AS A MEMBER OF THE MARINE CORPS DURING THE VIETNAM WAR
                  
                     (a)
                     Authorization
                     Notwithstanding the time limitations specified in sections 8298(a) and 8300 of title 10, United States Code, or any other time limitation with respect to the awarding of certain medals to persons who served in the Armed Forces, the President is authorized to award the Medal of Honor, under section 8291 of such title, to James Capers, Jr. for the acts of valor described in subsection (b).
                  
                  
                     (b)
                     Acts of valor described
                     The acts of valor described in this subsection are the actions of James Capers, Jr., as a member of the Marine Corps, during the period of March 31 through April 3, 1967, during the Vietnam War, for which he was previously awarded the Silver Star.
                  
               
               
                  584.
                  AUTHORIZATION OF AWARD OF MEDAL OF HONOR TO GREGORY MCMANUS FOR ACTS OF VALOR
                  
                     (a)
                     Waiver of time limitations
                     Notwithstanding the time limitations specified in section 7274 of title 10, United States Code, or any other time limitation with respect to the awarding of certain medals to persons who served in the Armed Forces, the President is authorized to award the Medal of Honor, under section 7271 of such title, to Gregory McManus for the acts of valor described in subsection (b).
                  
                  
                     (b)
                     Acts of valor described
                     The acts of valor described in this subsection are the following:
                     
                        (1)
                        Chief Warrant Officer Gregory McManus distinguished himself for his brave acts of valor while serving in the United States Army by risking his life to save the lives of his fellow servicemembers.
                     
                     
                        (2)
                        Chief Warrant Officer McManus deserves recognition for his acts of valor while serving as the commander of a single helicopter gunship on an important mission north of Chai Duc.
                     
                     
                        (3)
                        Discovering an envoy of hundreds of enemy troops along the Cambodian border, Chief Warrant Officer McManus attacked the enemy without hesitation.
                     
                     
                        (4)
                        Chief Warrant Officer McManus disregarded the tracers that rose to meet him, firing rockets the entire length of the convoy, confusing the enemy, and scattering the troop column.
                     
                     
                        (5)
                        Chief Warrant Officer McManus then attacked an armored vehicle with a mounted machine gun, destroying it and a large artillery piece which it was towing.
                     
                     
                        (6)
                        Over and over, Chief Warrant Officer McManus flew through heavy automatic weapons and machine gun fire to attack the enemy, only deciding to return when his ordinance was expended, and his ship had taken so much damage that further flight was inadvisable.
                     
                     
                        (7)
                        With this noble deed, Chief Warrant Officer McManus was able to destroy the enemy unit and scattered the rest in disorder with a single ship.
                     
                     
                        (8)
                        Disregarding the size and scope of the enemy troop’s convoy, Chief Warrant Officer McManus put his own life in danger, all in the service of his country and members of the Armed Forces.
                     
                     
                        (9)
                        Because of the heroic actions of Chief Warrant Officer McManus, countless American soldier’s lives were saved.
                     
                     
                        (10)
                        These actions of heroism by Chief Warrant Officer McManus deserves recognition and demonstrates this hero of the United States more than deserve the medal of honor.
                     
                  
               
               
                  585.
                  AUTHORIZATION FOR LAST SERVICEMEMBER STANDING MEDAL
                  
                     (a)
                     Authorization
                     
                        Chapter 57 of title 10, United States Code, is amended—
                     
                        (1)
                        by redesignating sections 1135 and 1136 as sections 1136 and section 1137, respectively; and
                     
                     
                        (2)
                        by inserting after section 1134 the following new section:
                        
                           
                              1135.
                              LAST SERVICEMEMBER STANDING MEDAL
                              
                                 (a)
                                 Medal authorized
                                 The Secretary concerned may issue a service medal, to be known as the Last Servicemember Standing medal, to persons eligible under subsection (c).
                              
                              
                                 (b)
                                 Design
                                 The Last Servicemember Standing medal shall be of an appropriate design approved by the Secretary of Defense, with ribbons, lapel pins, and other appurtenances.
                              
                              
                                 (c)
                                 Eligible persons
                                 Subject to subsection (d), a person eligible to be issued the Last Servicemember Standing medal is any member who—
                                 
                                    (1)
                                    served on active duty;
                                 
                                 
                                    (2)
                                    was deployed during war or overseas contingency operation;
                                 
                                 
                                    (3)
                                    as a result of a combat instance during such war or overseas contingency, was the last surviving member of a unit;
                                 
                                 
                                    (4)
                                    demonstrated extraordinary heroism in defense of the United States during such combat instance; and 
                                 
                                 
                                    (5)
                                    whose character is recommended for recognition by their commanding officer and at least two peers.
                                 
                              
                              
                                 (d)
                                 One medal authorized
                                 Not more than one Last Servicemember Standing medal may be issued to any person.
                              
                              
                                 (e)
                                 Issuance to next-of-Kin
                                 If a person described in subsection (c) is deceased, the Secretary concerned may provide for issuance of the Last Servicemember Standing medal to the next-of-kin of the person.
                              
                              
                                 (f)
                                 Regulations
                                 The issuance of a Last Servicemember Standing medal shall be subject to such regulations as the Secretaries concerned shall prescribe for purposes of this section. The Secretary of Defense shall ensure that any regulations prescribed under this subsection are uniform to the extent practicable.
                              
                           
                           .
                        
                     
                  
                  
                     (b)
                     Sense of Congress
                     It is the sense of Congress that the Secretary of Defense should take appropriate actions to expedite—
                     
                        (1)
                        the design of the Last Servicemember Standing medal provided for by section 1136 of title 10, United States Code, as added by subsection (a); and
                     
                     
                        (2)
                        the establishment and implementation of mechanisms to facilitate the issuance of the Last Servicemember Standing Medal to persons eligible for the issuance of the medal under such section.
                     
                  
               
               
                  586.
                  ELIGIBILITY OF VETERANS OF OPERATION END SWEEP FOR VIETNAM SERVICE MEDAL
                  The Secretary of the military department concerned may, upon the application of an individual who is a veteran who participated in Operation End Sweep, award that individual the Vietnam Service Medal.
               
               
                  587.
                  AUTHORIZATION OF AWARD OF MEDAL OF HONOR TO JOSEPH M. PEREZ FOR ACTS OF VALOR AS A MEMBER OF THE ARMY DURING THE VIETNAM WAR
                  
                     (a)
                     Recognition of Acts of Valor
                     Congress recognizes the following acts of valor by Joseph M. Perez:
                     
                        (1)
                        Joseph M. Perez distinguished himself by valorous actions against overwhelming odds while serving as a Sergeant in the Army, with Company C, 3rd Battalion, 8th Infantry Regiment, 4th Infantry Division, in South Vietnam.
                     
                     
                        (2)
                        On May 26, 1967, during the Vietnam War, Sergeant Perez acted as the fire team leader with the Commanding Officer of Company C and led an infantry unit conducting a search and destroy task near the Cambodian border. When the unit reached the top of a hill, they were suddenly under attack from a concealed sniper.
                     
                     
                        (3)
                        During the initial phase of battle, Sergeant Perez and the unit took cover to assess and decide the strength of the enemy and determine the direction of where the attack was coming from. When the enemy launched a hand-grenade, the fire team returned fire. Without hesitation or concern for his personal safety, Sergeant Perez absorbed the full lethal explosion of the grenade and shielded his fellow soldiers from the blast. The explosion caused Sergeant Perez to lose his right eye and severed his right hand.
                     
                     
                        (4)
                        The fire team moved to relocate to a safer area, leaving Sergeant Perez alone. Once Sergeant Perez regained consciousness, he crawled twenty meters to safe ground to be treated by medics. 
                     
                     
                        (5)
                        Sergeant Perez’s personal leadership in intense close combat resulted in a major win for his battalion against overwhelming odds, though he lost his eye and hand and nearly lost his life, he saved the lives of three of his fire team members from death and serious injuries from the explosion.
                     
                     
                        (6)
                        Sergeant Perez’s selfless devotion to duty, his extraordinary heroism, conspicuous gallantry and intrepidity, and numerous risks of his life above and beyond the call of duty are all in keeping with the highest traditions of the Army, and reflect great credit on himself, the Armed Forces, and the United States.
                     
                  
                  
                     (b)
                     Findings
                     Congress makes the following findings:
                     
                        (1)
                        When awarding him the distinguished-service cross, Sergeant Perez’s chain of command was unaware of the full extent of his valorous actions and the numerous risks he took for his soldiers, all above and beyond the call of duty.
                     
                     
                        (2)
                        Although Sergeant Perez absorbed the lethal explosion of a hand grenade, once he regained consciousness, he continued to move with his battalion against devastating and overwhelming enemy fire.
                     
                  
                  
                     (c)
                     Authorization
                     Notwithstanding the time limitations specified in section 7274 of title 10, United States Code, or any other time limitation with respect to the awarding of certain medals to persons who served in the Armed Forces, the President is authorized to award the Medal of Honor, under section 7271 of such title, to Joseph M. Perez for the acts of valor described in subsection (d).
                  
                  
                     (d)
                     Acts of valor described
                     The acts of valor described in this subsection are the actions of Joseph M. Perez on May 26, 1967, while serving as a member of the Army during the Vietnam War, for which he was previously awarded the distinguished-service cross.
                  
               
               
                  588.
                  AUTHORIZATION OF AWARD OF MEDAL OF HONOR TO JUAN OGO BLAZ FOR ACTS OF VALOR WHILE SERVING AS A MEMBER OF THE ARMY DURING THE VIETNAM WAR
                  
                     (a)
                     Authorization
                     Notwithstanding the time limitations specified in section 7274 of title 10, United States Code, or any other time limitation with respect to the awarding of certain medals to persons who served in the Armed Forces, the President is authorized to award the Medal of Honor, under section 7271 of such title, to Juan Ogo Blaz for the acts of valor described in subsection (b).
                  
                  
                     (b)
                     Acts of valor described
                     The acts of valor described in this subsection are the actions of Juan Ogo Blaz on January 18, 1969, while serving as a member of the Army during the Vietnam War, for which he was previously awarded the Distinguished Service Cross.
                  
               
               
                  589.
                  AUTHORIZATION OF AWARD OF MEDAL OF HONOR TO MARTIN A. MAGLONA FOR ACTS OF VALOR WHILE SERVING AS A MEMBER OF THE ARMY DURING THE VIETNAM WAR
                  
                     (a)
                     Authorization
                     Notwithstanding the time limitations specified in section 7274 of title 10, United States Code, or any other time limitation with respect to the awarding of certain medals to persons who served in the Armed Forces, the President is authorized to award the Medal of Honor, under section 7271 of such title, toMartin A. Maglona for the acts of valor described in subsection (b).
                  
                  
                     (b)
                     Acts of valor described
                     The acts of valor described in this subsection are the actions of Martin A. Maglona on February 23, 1969, while serving as a member of the Army during the Vietnam War, for which he was previously awarded the Distinguished Service Cross.
                  
               
            
            
               J
               Other Personnel Matters, Reports, and Briefings
               
                  591.
                  MODIFICATION TO ANNUAL REPORTS ON RACIAL AND ETHNIC DEMOGRAPHICS IN THE MILITARY JUSTICE SYSTEM
                  
                     (a)
                     Inclusion of additional information in annual reports
                     Section 486 of title 10, United States Code, is amended—
                     
                        (1)
                        by redesignating subsection (c) as subsection (d); and
                     
                     
                        (2)
                        by inserting after subsection (b) the following new subsection:
                        
                           
                              (c)
                              Information on administrative separations and other sanctions
                              In addition to the information described in subsection (b), the report of a Secretary of a military department for an armed force under subsection (a) shall contain statistics and other information on administrative separations and other administrative sanctions issued during the year covered by the report, including—
                              
                                 (1)
                                 the number of administrative separations and other administrative sanctions issued, disaggregated by—
                                 
                                    (A)
                                    statistical category as related to the individual subject to separation or sanction;
                                 
                                 
                                    (B)
                                    the active and reserve components; and
                                 
                                 
                                    (C)
                                    the category of conduct that gave rise to the separation or sanction;
                                 
                              
                              
                                 (2)
                                 of the separations and sanctions included under paragraph (1), the number of cases in which the individual subject to separation or sanction made a claim against the Department of Defense (including any claims of sexual harassment or sexual assault) before the separation or other sanction was imposed;
                              
                              
                                 (3)
                                 identification of each administrative case that extended beyond 90 days and an explanation for the delay; and
                              
                              
                                 (4)
                                 based on all sources of information available to the Secretary, including any information available from inspectors general or equal opportunity offices, the number of complaints filed by individuals who were subjects of an administrative investigation, disaggregated by statistical category.
                              
                           
                           .
                        
                     
                  
                  
                     (b)
                     GAO review and briefing
                     
                        (1)
                        Reviews
                        The Comptroller General of the United States shall conduct a review of all reports submitted under section 486 of title 10, United States Code. In conducting such review, the Comptroller General shall—
                        
                           (A)
                           evaluate the sufficiency of the information contained in the reports;
                        
                        
                           (B)
                           analyze trends based on such information;
                        
                        
                           (C)
                           analyze the effects of disparities and other challenges revealed in such reports, including effects on—
                           
                              (i)
                              recruiting and retention;
                           
                           
                              (ii)
                              readiness; and
                           
                           
                              (iii)
                              the national security of the United States; and
                           
                        
                        
                           (D)
                           evaluate the progress of the Armed Forces in addressing such disparities and challenges.
                        
                     
                     
                        (2)
                        Briefing
                        Not later than one year after the date of the enactment of this Act, the Comptroller General shall provide to the Committees on Armed Services of the Senate and the House of Representatives a briefing on the results of the review conducted under paragraph (1).
                     
                  
                  
                     (c)
                     Training program for investigatory personnel
                     
                        (1)
                        Program required
                        Not later than one year after the date of the enactment of this Act, the Secretary of Defense shall develop and implement a training program to ensure that personnel of the Department of Defense responsible for conducting administrative investigations have the knowledge necessary to properly conduct such investigations and to ensure the fair treatment of complainants and individuals subject to investigation.
                     
                     
                        (2)
                        Testing required
                        The training program under paragraph (1) shall incorporate objective testing to measure the knowledge and abilities of personnel who receive the training.
                     
                     
                        (3)
                        Briefing
                        Not later than one year after the date of the enactment of this Act, the Secretary of Defense shall provide to the Committees on Armed Services of the Senate and the House of Representatives a briefing on the training program under paragraph (1), which shall include—
                        
                           (A)
                           a description of the training program; and
                        
                        
                           (B)
                           an evaluation of the results achieved by the training program as of the date of the briefing.
                        
                     
                  
                  
                     (d)
                     Due process standards for administrative cases
                     The Secretary of Defense shall issue regulations establishing due process protections for members of the Armed Forces subject to administrative investigations and related disciplinary proceedings. In issuing such regulations, the Secretary shall—
                     
                        (1)
                        establish a standard of proof that must be met before administrative discipline may be imposed on a member;
                     
                     
                        (2)
                        ensure that a member has the opportunity to respond during each phase of an administrative investigation and disciplinary proceeding; and
                     
                     
                        (3)
                        ensure that a member serving on a part-time basis will be placed in an appropriate duty status and fully compensated for any time spent participating or responding to the investigative or disciplinary process.
                     
                  
                  
                     (e)
                     Annual reports of military boards
                     On an annual basis, the head of each board for correction of military records (as described in section 1552 of title 10 United States Code) and discharge review board (as described in section 1553 of such title) shall submit to the Committees on Armed Services of the Senate and the House of Representatives a report that includes, with respect to to the year covered by the report—
                     
                        (1)
                        the number of cases considered by the board, disaggregated by race, sex, ethnicity, and rank as related to the member of the Armed Forces subject to the review of the board;
                     
                     
                        (2)
                        of such cases, the number that resulted in an adverse determination against a member, disaggregated as described in paragraph (1);
                     
                     
                        (3)
                        the reasons for such adverse determinations.
                     
                  
               
               
                  592.
                  PROVISION OF INFORMATION REGARDING FEDERAL SERVICE TO CERTAIN PERSONS DETERMINED NOT QUALIFIED TO ENLIST IN CERTAIN ARMED FORCES
                  
                     (a)
                     In general
                     Not later than 180 days after the date of the enactment of this Act, the Secretary of Defense shall prescribe regulations directing the Secretary of a military department to provide, to a person described in subsection (b), information regarding opportunities for Federal service for which the person may be qualified.
                  
                  
                     (b)
                     Certain persons not qualified to enlist
                     A person described in this subsection is a person determined not qualified to enlist in a covered Armed Force on the basis that the person—
                     
                        (1)
                        has a disqualifying medical condition for which the Secretary of the military department concerned may not issue a waiver; or
                     
                     
                        (2)
                        enrolled in, but failed to graduate from, a future member preparatory course of such covered Armed Force.
                     
                  
                  
                     (c)
                     Covered Armed Force defined
                     In this section, the term covered Armed Force means the Army, Navy, Marine Corps, Air Force, or Space Force.
                  
               
               
                  593.
                  MODERNIZATION OF DRESS CODES AND POLICIES ON MILITARY INSTALLATIONS DURING NON-WORKING AND NON-DUTY STATUS HOURS
                  
                     (a)
                     In general
                     Not later than June 1, 2025, the Secretary of each of the military departments shall issue guidance to commanders of installations under the jurisdiction of the Secretary to require the modernization of dress codes or policies for members of the Armed Forces during non-working and non-duty status hours, while on military installations, and for all military dependents on military installations at any time.
                  
                  
                     (b)
                     Modernization defined
                     In this section, the term modernization means, with respect to a dress code or policy, the changing of such code or policy to the least restrictive version such code or policy, including by not requiring or restricting any generally accepted item of clothing.
                  
               
               
                  594.
                  PILOT PROGRAM TO ALLOW MEMBERS IN THE DEPARTMENT OF THE AIR FORCE TO GROW BEARDS
                  
                     (a)
                     Establishment
                     Not later than 180 days after the date of the enactment of this Act, the Secretary of the Air Force shall establish a pilot program to allow members of the Air Force and Space Force to grow beards.
                  
                  
                     (b)
                     Selection of participants
                     The Secretary shall select units from such Armed Forces to participate in the pilot program to ensure that the such units—
                     
                        (1)
                        are located in geographically diverse areas;
                     
                     
                        (2)
                        operate in diverse environments; and
                     
                     
                        (3)
                        perform various missions.
                     
                  
                  
                     (c)
                     Report and briefings
                     
                        (1)
                        Initial report
                        Not later than one year after the initiation of the pilot program, the Secretary shall submit to the Committees on Armed Services of the Senate and House of Representatives a report on the interim findings of the pilot program.
                     
                     
                        (2)
                        Final briefing
                         Not later than 90 days after the termination completion of the pilot program, the Secretary shall submit to the Committees on Armed Services of the Senate and House of Representatives a briefing on the pilot program. Such briefing shall include the recommendation of the Secretary whether to expand the pilot program or make it permanent.
                     
                     
                        (3)
                        Elements
                        A report or briefing under this subsection shall include the following elements:
                        
                           (A)
                           The evaluation of the Secretary of the compatibility of beards with military equipment that requires an airtight seal, such as a gas mask.
                        
                        
                           (B)
                           An assessment of the effect of beard growth on discipline, morale, and unity within the ranks.
                        
                        
                           (C)
                           A determination whether allowing members to grow beards improves inclusivity, including for members with conditions like pseudofolliculitis barbae or who wish to grow beards for religious purposes.
                        
                        
                           (D)
                           Identifications of any negative perception or bias towards members with beards.
                        
                        
                           (E)
                           Strategies to mitigate such negative perceptions or bias.
                        
                     
                  
                  
                     (d)
                     Termination
                     The pilot program under this section shall terminate three years after the date of the enactment of this Act.
                  
               
               
                  595.
                  FEMALE MEMBERS OF CERTAIN ARMED FORCES AND CIVILIAN EMPLOYEES OF THE DEPARTMENT OF DEFENSE IN STEM
                  
                     (a)
                     Study; report
                     Not later than September 30, 2025, the Secretary of Defense shall submit to the Committees on Armed Services of the Senate and House of Representatives a report containing the results of a study on how to—
                     
                        (1)
                        increase participation of covered individuals in positions in the covered Armed Forces or Department of Defense and related to STEM; and
                     
                     
                        (2)
                        change Skillbridge to help covered individuals eligible for Skillbridge find civilian employment in positions related to STEM.
                     
                  
                  
                     (b)
                     Definitions
                     In this section:
                     
                        (1)
                        The term covered Armed Force means the Army, Navy, Marine Corps, Air Force, or Space Force.
                     
                     
                        (2)
                        The term covered individual means a female—
                        
                           (A)
                           member of a covered Armed Force; or
                        
                        
                           (B)
                           civilian employee of the Department of Defense.
                        
                     
                     
                        (3)
                        The term Skillbridge means an employment skills training program under section 1143(e) of title 10, United States Code.
                     
                     
                        (4)
                        The term STEM means science, technology, engineering, and mathematics.
                     
                  
               
               
                  596.
                  STUDY ON BENEFITS OF STANDARDIZING POLICIES REGARDING BASIC ALLOWANCE FOR HOUSING AND FAMILY HOUSING ELIGIBILITY FOR MEMBERS OF THE ARMED FORCES SERVING ON ACTIVE DUTY WHO ARE UNACCOMPANIED AND PREGNANT
                  
                     (a)
                     In general
                     The Secretary of Defense, in coordination with the Secretary concerned, shall carry out a study on the policies regarding basic allowance for housing and family housing eligibility for members of the Armed Forces serving on active duty who are unaccompanied and who become pregnant while residing in unaccompanied housing. The study shall include the identification of—
                     
                        (1)
                        for each of the Armed Forces, the current policy regarding when unaccompanied pregnant members of the Armed Forces who reside in unaccompanied housing are eligible to receive basic allowance for housing;
                     
                     
                        (2)
                        for each of the Armed Forces, the current policy regarding when unaccompanied pregnant members of the Armed Forces who reside in unaccompanied housing are eligible for admittance to the wait list for family housing and assignment of family housing;
                     
                     
                        (3)
                        any disparities between written policies and the implementation of such policies;
                     
                     
                        (4)
                        recommendations to standardize such policies across the Armed Forces; and
                     
                     
                        (5)
                        any costs associated with the standardization of such policies, including with respect to any infrastructure improvements that may be needed.
                     
                  
                  
                     (b)
                     Report
                     Not later than one year after completing the study required under subsection (a), the Secretary of Defense shall submit to Congress a report containing the results of the study.
                  
                  
                     (c)
                     Implementation
                     Not later than 90 days after the date of the completion of the study under subsection (a), the Secretary of Defense, in coordination with the Secretary concerned, shall take such actions as may be necessary to provide for a uniform policy across the Armed Forces with respect to basic allowance for housing and family housing eligibility for members of the Armed Forces serving on active duty who are unaccompanied and who become pregnant while residing in unaccompanied housing. Such policies shall include that upon providing medical certification of pregnancy and medical certification of predicted due date, an unaccompanied member of the Armed Force residing in unaccompanied housing shall be eligible to receive basic allowance for housing beginning not later than three months prior to such predicted due date.
                  
               
               
                  597.
                  STUDY AND REPORT ON REFORMS TO CERTAIN GRACE PERIODS UNDER TRANSITION ASSISTANCE PROGRAM OF THE DEPARTMENT OF DEFENSE
                  
                     (a)
                     Study
                     The Undersecretary of Defense for Personnel and Readiness shall conduct a comprehensive study on military grace period reforms, specifically focusing on the impact of unit tasking during TAP on the ability of servicemembers to transition to civilian life. The study shall include the following elements:
                     
                        (1)
                        A review of the current practices within the military branches regarding unit tasking during TAP ans its effect on service members’ transition process.
                     
                     
                        (2)
                        An analysis of the challenges faced by service members when balancing their primary duties with the demands of TAP including the impact on their mental health, family life, and overall preparedness for civilian life.
                     
                     
                        (3)
                        An assessment of current military grace periods that allow for unplanned periods of leave, temporary duty, deployments, or other unplanned periods of non-availability, and an evaluation of the effectiveness of the such current military grace periods.
                     
                     
                        (4)
                        Recommendations for the creation of a code or policy that allows servicemembers who are currently enrolled in TAP to report in only to their respective command, ensuring that such servicemembers can fully focus on the transition process.
                     
                     
                        (5)
                        A description of any necessary resources, support systems, or additional training required to implement the proposed reforms effectively.
                     
                     
                        (6)
                        Any other relevant information or recommendations deemed necessary by the Undersecretary of Defense to improve TAP and facilitate a successful transition for servicemembers.
                     
                  
                  
                     (b)
                     Report
                     Not later than one year after the date of the study, the Under Secretary of Defense for Personnel and Readiness shall submit to the Committees on Armed Services of the House of Representative and the Senate a report that includes—
                     
                        (1)
                        the findings, conclusions, and recommendations resulting from the study under subsection (a); and
                     
                     
                        (2)
                        a comprehensive plan of action, including proposed timelines, milestones, and resource requirements, for the implementation of the recommended military grace period reforms under such subsection.
                     
                  
                  
                     (c)
                     Coordination
                     The Undersecretary of Defense for Personnel and Readiness may request and utilize the support of other relevant government agencies, as appropriate, in conducting such study.
                  
                  
                     (d)
                     Definitions
                     In this section:
                     
                        (1)
                        The term military grace period reforms refers to a set of changes or amendments made to existing laws or policies that establish a designated period of time, commonly known as a grace period, during certain administrative processes or restrictions that may apply to service members in transition.
                     
                     
                        (2)
                        The term TAP means the Transition Assistance Program of the Department of Defense under sections 1142 and 1144, of title 10, United States Code.
                     
                  
               
               
                  598.
                  SENSE OF CONGRESS REGARDING MILITARY SERVICE BY INDIVIDUALS WITH AMPUTATIONS
                  It is the sense of Congress that increasing geopolitical threats, combined with recruitment challenges experienced by the Armed Forces, are a threat to the national security interests of the United States, therefore, the Secretary of Defense should issue medical waivers to an individual seeking to serve in the Armed Forces who is precluded from serving solely because of a non-service-connected amputation.
               
               
                  599.
                  REPORT ON NATIONAL GUARD SEXUAL ASSAULT AND RESPONSE PREVENTION TRAINING
                  The Chief of the National Guard Bureau shall submit a report to the Committees on Armed Services of the Senate and House of Representatives containing the number of national guard members, aggregated by State, that received sexual assault and response prevention training in the preceding calendar year—
                  
                     (1)
                     not later than 180 days after the date of enactment of this Act; and
                  
                  
                     (2)
                     annually, beginning in 2026, by not later than March 30 of each year. 
                  
               
               
                  599A.
                  COMMERCIAL TRANSITION FOR MILITARY AVIATION MECHANICS
                  The Secretary of Defense shall create a strategy to support the transition of military aviation mechanics to commercial aviation mechanics after active duty service. 
               
               
                  599B.
                  ENTREPRENEURSHIP PROGRAM FOR SERVICEMEMBERS
                  The Secretary of Defense shall study the feasibility of establishing a mentoring program for members of the Armed Forces who are interested in becoming entrepreneurs or founding start-up businesses after their active duty service. 
               
               
                  599C.
                  DEFENSE ADVISORY COMMITTEE ON DIVERSITY AND INCLUSION; REPORT
                  Not later than October 1, 2024, the Secretary of Defense shall submit to the Committees on Armed Services of the Senate and House of Representatives a report regarding the Defense Advisory Committee on Diversity and Inclusion (DACODAI). The report shall contain the following items:
                  
                     (1)
                     An overview of the appointment process used to select individuals currently serving as members of the DACODAI, including the nominating source for each individual currently serving as a DACODAI member.
                  
                  
                     (2)
                     An explanation of how the Department ensures individuals selected to serve as members of DACODAI comprise points of view that are fairly balanced as required by the Federal Advisory Committee Act.
                  
                  
                     (3)
                     A complete listing of all recommendations made by the DACODAI since September 23, 2022.
                  
                  
                     (4)
                     A complete listing of all studies initiated by the DACODAI since September 23, 2022.
                  
                  
                     (5)
                     The cost associated with operating the DACODAI since September 23, 2022.
                  
               
               
                  599D.
                  REPORT ON INTEGRATION OF CHAPLAINS INTO ACTIVITIES IN THE INDO-PACIFIC REGION
                  Not later than 180 days after the date of the enactment of this Act, the Secretary of Defense shall submit to the congressional defense committees a report assessing the use of chaplains and the Chaplain Corps during campaigning efforts in the Indo-Pacific, that also includes the following:
                  
                     (1)
                     A summary of the manner and extent to which chaplains are deliberately integrated into campaigning events in the Indo-Pacific to build relationships and partnerships with partners and host countries.
                  
                  
                     (2)
                     A description of the deployment and exercise events chaplains are integrated into.
                  
                  
                     (3)
                     A list of host country or partner outreach events that chaplains hosted or supported.
                  
                  
                     (4)
                     An assessment of future integration planned for chaplains in the Indo-Pacific area of responsibility.
                  
               
            
         
         
            VI
            COMPENSATION AND OTHER PERSONNEL BENEFITS
            
               A
               Basic Pay, Retired Pay, and Leave
               
                  601.
                  POLICY ON POSTPARTUM PHYSICAL FITNESS TESTS AND BODY COMPOSITION ASSESSMENTS
                  Section 701(k) of title 10, United States Code, is amended, in the matter preceding paragraph (1)—
                  
                     (1)
                     by striking gives birth and inserting is pregnant; and
                  
                  
                     (2)
                     by striking such birth and inserting birth, loss of pregnancy, or stillbirth.
                  
               
               
                  602.
                  EXTENSION OF PARENTAL LEAVE TO MEMBERS OF THE COAST GUARD RESERVE
                  
                     (a)
                     Extension
                     Section 711 of chapter 40 of title 10, United States Code, is amended, in subsection (b), in the matter preceding paragraph (1), by striking is a member of the Army, Navy, Marine Corps, Air Force, or Space Force who.
                  
                  
                     (b)
                     Technical correction
                     Such section is redesignated as section 710a of such title.
                  
                  
                     (c)
                     Effective date
                     The amendments made by this section shall take effect on October 1, 2025.
                  
               
               
                  603.
                  PROHIBITION ON EXPOSING MEMBERS OF THE ARMED FORCES TO CHINESE MILITARY COMPANY INVESTMENTS THROUGH THE THRIFT SAVINGS PLAN
                  
                     (a)
                     In general
                     Section 211 of title 37, United States Code, is amended by adding at the end the following:
                     
                        
                           (e)
                           Limitation on mutual fund window
                           A member of the armed forces may not participate or invest in the Thrift Savings Plan mutual fund window pursuant to section 8438(b)(5) of title 5 if that window includes a mutual fund that holds a Chinese military company (as that term is defined in section 1260H of Public Law 116–283) as determined by the mutual fund’s most recent quarterly filing with the Securities and Exchange Commission.
                        
                        .
                     
                  
                  
                     (b)
                     Rule of construction
                     The amendment made by subsection (a) shall not be construed to limit access of members of the Armed Forces to Thrift Savings Plan mutual funds that do not include any Chinese military company (as defined in section 1260H of Public Law 116–283).
                  
               
               
                  604.
                  ELIMINATION OF CAP ON ADDITIONAL RETIRED PAY FOR EXTRAORDINARY HEROISM FOR MEMBERS OF THE ARMY AND AIR FORCE WHO SERVED DURING THE VIETNAM ERA
                  Title 10, United States Code, is amended—
                  
                     (1)
                     in section 1402(f)(2), by striking The amount and inserting Except in the case of a member who served during the Vietnam Era (as that term is defined in section 12731 of this title), the amount;
                  
                  
                     (2)
                     in section 7361(a)(2), by inserting (except in the case of a member who served during the Vietnam Era, as that term is defined in section 12731 of this title) after based; and
                  
                  
                     (3)
                     in section 9361(a)(2), by inserting (except in the case of a member who served during the Vietnam Era, as that term is defined in section 12731 of this title) after based.
                  
               
               
                  605.
                  EXPANSION OF BEREAVEMENT LEAVE
                  Section 701(l)(1)(A) of title 10, United States Code, is amended by striking two weeks and inserting 12 weeks. 
               
               
                  606.
                  PROGRAM TO ASSIST SERVICE MEMBERS AT RISK OF SUICIDE
                  
                     (a)
                     Program required
                     Not later than 90 days after the date of the enactment of this Act, the Secretary of Defense, in consultation with the Director of the Defense Health Agency, shall develop and implement a centralized program to monitor and provide assistance to members of the Armed Forces at risk of suicide who have been recently discharged from health care, as outlined in Recommendation 6.29 of the final report issued by the Suicide Prevention and Response Independent Review Committee. 
                  
                  
                     (b)
                     Matters to be included
                     The centralized program referred to in subsection (a) shall specify the following: 
                     
                        (1)
                        The individual and agency responsible for conducting service member follow up.
                     
                     
                        (2)
                        The time when initial follow-up will occur.
                     
                     
                        (3)
                        The times when subsequent follow-ups will occur.
                     
                     
                        (4)
                        The manner in which patients will be contacted.
                     
                     
                        (5)
                        The process for documentation of follow-up attempts.
                     
                     
                        (6)
                        The procedures for ensuring patient safety where patient is unreachable. 
                     
                     
                        (7)
                        The processes for medical treatment facilities to link mortality data to health care delivery data in order to better identify settings and patients at higher risk of suicide, further inform local suicide prevention strategies for targeted high-risk groups, and ensure compliance with reporting and investigating suicides occurring within 72 hours of discharge from a hospital. 
                     
                  
                  
                     (c)
                     Members of the Armed Forces at risk of suicide
                     For purposes of this section, the term members of the Armed Forces at risk of suicide includes members of the Armed Forces who have attempted suicide and members of the Armed Forces who have been discharged as patients and who have been clinically assessed as benefitting from follow-up support related to suicide prevention.
                  
               
            
            
               B
               Bonus and Incentive Pays
               
                  611.
                  INCENTIVE PAY: EXPLOSIVE ORDNANCE DISPOSAL DUTY
                  
                     (a)
                     Establishment
                     Subchapter I of Chapter 5 of title 37, United States Code, is amended by inserting, after section 301e, the following new section:
                     
                        
                           301f.
                           INCENTIVE PAY: EXPLOSIVE ORDNANCE DISPOSAL DUTY.
                           
                              (a)
                              Eligibility
                              
                                 (1)
                                 Subject to regulations prescribed by the Secretary of Defense, a regular member of a covered armed force is entitled to continuous monthly explosive ordnance disposal duty incentive pay in the amount specified in subsection (b)(1) if the member—
                                 
                                    (A)
                                    is entitled to basic pay;
                                 
                                 
                                    (B)
                                    holds (or is in training leading to) an explosive ordnance disposal duty designator; and
                                 
                                 
                                    (C)
                                    is in and remains in explosive ordnance disposal duty on a career basis.
                                 
                              
                              
                                 (2)
                                 Subject to regulations prescribed by the Secretary of Defense, a member of a covered armed force who is entitled to basic pay but is not entitled to continuous monthly explosive ordnance disposal duty incentive pay under paragraph (1) is entitled to explosive ordnance disposal duty incentive pay in the amount prescribed pursuant to subsection (b)(2) for any period during which such member performs explosive ordnance disposal duty under orders.
                              
                           
                           
                              (b)
                              Rates
                              
                                 (1)
                                 Continuous monthly explosive ordnance disposal duty incentive pay under subsection (a)(1) shall be in the following amounts:
                                 
                                    
                                    
                                       
                                       
                                       
                                          
                                             Years of explosive ordnance disposal duty (including training):
                                             Monthly Rate
                                          
                                       
                                       
                                          
                                             2 or fewer
                                             $125
                                          
                                          
                                             Over 2 
                                             $156 
                                          
                                          
                                             Over 3 
                                             $188 
                                          
                                          
                                             Over 4 
                                             $206 
                                          
                                          
                                             Over 6 
                                             $650
                                          
                                          
                                             Over 8 
                                             $800 
                                          
                                          
                                             Over 10 
                                             $1,000 
                                          
                                          
                                             Over 17 
                                             $840 
                                          
                                          
                                             Over 22 
                                             $585 
                                          
                                          
                                             Over 24 
                                             $385 
                                          
                                          
                                             Over 25
                                             $250
                                          
                                       
                                    
                                 
                              
                              
                                 (2)
                                 Explosive ordnance disposal duty incentive pay under subsection (a)(2)—
                                 
                                    (A)
                                    shall be in amounts prescribed by the Secretary of Defense; 
                                 
                                 
                                    (B)
                                    may not, for any month, exceed the maximum amount specified in paragraph (1); and
                                 
                                 
                                    (C)
                                    may not be less per day than the amount under subsection (d).
                                 
                              
                           
                           
                              (c)
                              Computation of years
                              Years of explosive ordnance disposal duty by a member shall be computed beginning with the effective date of the initial order to such member to perform explosive ordnance disposal duty.
                           
                           
                              (d)
                              Applicability to certain duty in the reserve components
                              Under regulations prescribed by the Secretary of Defense and to the extent provided for by appropriations, for each day that a member of the reserve component of a covered armed force who is entitled to compensation under section 206 of this title, performs, under orders, explosive ordnance disposal duty, such member is eligible for an increase in compensation equal to one-thirtieth of the continuous monthly incentive pay under subsection (b)(1) for a member of corresponding years of service entitled to basic pay.
                           
                           
                              (e)
                              Definitions
                              In this section:
                              
                                 (1)
                                 The term covered armed force means the Army, Navy, Marine Corps, Air Force, or Space Force.
                              
                              
                                 (2)
                                 The term explosive ordnance disposal has the meaning given such term in section 2284 of title 10.
                              
                              
                                 (3)
                                 The term explosive ordnance disposal duty means duty performed by a member of a covered armed force, under regulations prescribed by the Secretary of Defense, in explosive ordnance disposal.
                              
                           
                        
                        .
                     
                  
                  
                     (b)
                     Effective date
                     Section 301f of title 37, United States Code, added by this section, shall take effect on the day that is six months after the date of the enactment of this Act and apply to explosive ordnance disposal duty performed on or after such day.
                  
               
               
                  612.
                  ONE-YEAR EXTENSION OF CERTAIN EXPIRING BONUS AND SPECIAL PAY AUTHORITIES
                  
                     (a)
                     Authorities relating to reserve forces
                     Section 910(g) of title 37, United States Code, relating to income replacement payments for reserve component members experiencing extended and frequent mobilization for active duty service, is amended by striking December 31, 2024 and inserting December 31, 2025.
                  
                  
                     (b)
                     Title 10 authorities relating to health care professionals
                     The following sections of title 10, United States Code, are amended by striking December 31, 2024 and inserting December 31, 2025:
                     
                        (1)
                        Section 2130a(a)(1), relating to nurse officer candidate accession program.
                     
                     
                        (2)
                        Section 16302(d), relating to repayment of education loans for certain health professionals who serve in the Selected Reserve.
                     
                  
                  
                     (c)
                     Authorities relating to nuclear officers
                     Section 333(i) of title 37, United States Code, is amended by striking December 31, 2024 and inserting December 31, 2025.
                  
                  
                     (d)
                     Authorities relating to title 37 consolidated special pay, incentive pay, and bonus authorities
                     The following sections of title 37, United States Code, are amended by striking December 31, 2024 and inserting December 31, 2025:
                     
                        (1)
                        Section 331(h), relating to general bonus authority for enlisted members.
                     
                     
                        (2)
                        Section 332(g), relating to general bonus authority for officers.
                     
                     
                        (3)
                        Section 334(i), relating to special aviation incentive pay and bonus authorities for officers.
                     
                     
                        (4)
                        Section 335(k), relating to special bonus and incentive pay authorities for officers in health professions.
                     
                     
                        (5)
                        Section 336(g), relating to contracting bonus for cadets and midshipmen enrolled in the Senior Reserve Officers’ Training Corps.
                     
                     
                        (6)
                        Section 351(h), relating to hazardous duty pay.
                     
                     
                        (7)
                        Section 352(g), relating to assignment pay or special duty pay.
                     
                     
                        (8)
                        Section 353(i), relating to skill incentive pay or proficiency bonus.
                     
                     
                        (9)
                        Section 355(h), relating to retention incentives for members qualified in critical military skills or assigned to high priority units.
                     
                  
                  
                     (e)
                     Authority to provide temporary increase in rates of basic allowance for housing
                     Section 403(b) of title 37, United States Code, is amended—
                     
                        (1)
                        in paragraph (7)(E), relating to an area covered by a major disaster declaration or containing an installation experiencing an influx of military personnel, by striking December 31, 2024 and inserting December 31, 2025; and
                     
                     
                        (2)
                        in paragraph (8)(C), relating to an area where actual housing costs differ from current rates by more than 20 percent, by striking September 30, 2024 and inserting December 31, 2025.
                     
                  
               
               
                  613.
                   ASSIGNMENT INCENTIVE PAY FOR MEMBERS ASSIGNED TO CREECH AIR FORCE BASE AND NAVAL AIR STATION FALLON
                  
                     (a)
                     In general
                     The Secretary concerned may designate the assignment of a member of the Armed Forces to Creech Air Force Base, Nevada, or Naval Air Station Fallon, Nevada, as an assignment that makes the member eligible for assignment incentive pay under section 307a of title 37, United States Code.
                  
                  
                     (b)
                     Secretary concerned defined
                     In this section, the term Secretary concerned has the meaning given that term in section 101 of title 37, United States Code.
                  
               
            
            
               C
               Allowances
               
                  621.
                  BASIC NEEDS ALLOWANCE: EXCLUSION OF BASIC ALLOWANCE FOR HOUSING FROM THE CALCULATION OF GROSS HOUSEHOLD INCOME OF AN ELIGIBLE MEMBER OF THE ARMED FORCES
                  Section 402b(k)(1)(B) of title 37, United States Code, is amended—
                  
                     (1)
                     by striking in and all that follows through portion of; and
                  
                  
                     (2)
                     by striking that the Secretary concerned elects to exclude and inserting paid to such member.
                  
               
               
                  622.
                  BASIC ALLOWANCE FOR HOUSING: PILOT PROGRAM TO OUTSOURCE RATE CALCULATION
                  
                     (a)
                     In general
                     Not later than September 30, 2025, the Secretary of Defense shall seek to enter into an agreement with a covered entity pursuant to which the covered entity shall calculate, using industry-standard machine learning and artificial intelligence algorithms, the monthly rates of BAH for not fewer than 15 MHAs.
                  
                  
                     (b)
                     Report
                     Not later than two years after the date of the enactment of this Act, the Secretary shall submit to the Committees on Armed Services of the Senate and House of Representatives a report containing the evaluation of the Secretary of the rates calculated by a covered entity pursuant to an agreement under subsection (a).
                  
                  
                     (c)
                     Definitions
                     In this section
                     
                        (1)
                        The term BAH means the basic allowance for housing for members of the uniformed services under section 403 of title 37, United States Code.
                     
                     
                        (2)
                        The term covered entity means a nationally recognized entity in the field of single-family housing that has data on local rental rates in real estate markets across the United States.
                     
                     
                        (3)
                        The term MHA means military housing area.
                     
                  
               
               
                  623.
                  TRAVEL AND TRANSPORTATION ALLOWANCES: PROHIBITION OF REQUIREMENT OF ZERO-EMISSION VEHICLE
                  An travel or transportation allowance paid pursuant to the Joint Travel Regulations for the Uniformed Services may not require that such travel or transportation be in a zero-emission vehicle.
               
               
                  624.
                  SENSE OF CONGRESS ON INCREASE TO THE FAMILY SEPARATION ALLOWANCE
                  It is the sense of Congress that the Secretary of Defense should raise the family separation allowance to the maximum allowable amount of $400 per month as authorized under section 427 of title 37, United States Code (as amended by section 626 of the National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2024 (Public Law 118–31; 137 Stat. 294)).
               
            
            
               D
               Family and Survivor Benefits
               
                  631.
                  EXPANSION OF ELIGIBILITY FOR CERTAIN BENEFITS THAT ARISE FROM THE DEATH OF A MEMBER OF THE ARMED FORCES
                  
                     (a)
                     Death gratuity
                     Section 1475(a)(4) of title 10, United States Code, is amended by striking for a period of more than 13 days.
                  
                  
                     (b)
                     Recovery, care, and disposition of remains
                     Section 1481(a) of title 10, United States Code, is amended by adding at the end the following new paragraph:
                     
                        
                           (11)
                           Any person not otherwise covered by this section whose death entitles a survivor of such person to a death gratuity under section 1475 of this title.
                        
                        .
                     
                  
                  
                     (c)
                     Eligibility for assistance from a casualty assistance officer
                     Section 633 of the National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2014 (Public Law 113–66; 10 U.S.C. 1475 note) is amended—
                     
                        (1)
                        in subsection (a)—
                        
                           (A)
                           in paragraph (1)—
                           
                              (i)
                              in subparagraph (A), by striking ; and and inserting a semicolon;
                           
                           
                              (ii)
                              in subparagraph (B), by striking the period at the end and inserting ; and; and
                           
                           
                              (iii)
                              by adding at the end the following new subparagraph:
                              
                                 
                                    (C)
                                    an individual not described in subparagraph (A) or (B) who is entitled to a death gratuity under section 1475 of title 10, United States Code.
                                 
                                 ;
                              
                           
                        
                        
                           (B)
                           in paragraph (2)—
                           
                              (i)
                              by striking spouses and dependents each place it appears and inserting survivors; and
                           
                           
                              (ii)
                              in subparagraph (A), by striking spouses and other dependents of deceased members and inserting such survivors; and
                           
                        
                     
                     
                        (2)
                        in subsection (b)(2), by striking the spouse and other dependents of a deceased member of the Armed Forces and inserting such a survivor.
                     
                  
                  
                     (d)
                     Effective date
                     The amendments made by this section shall apply to a death that occurs on or after the date of the enactment of this Act.
                  
               
               
                  632.
                  PAYMENT INSTEAD OF REIMBURSEMENT FOR THE TRANSPORTATION OF CERTAIN REMAINS TO TWO LOCATIONS IF THE SECOND LOCATION IS A NATIONAL CEMETERY
                  Section 1482(a)(8)(B) of title 10, United States Code, is amended, in the second sentence, by striking may pay for transportation to the second place only and inserting shall not require that payment for transportation to the second place be.
               
               
                  633.
                  INFORMATION REGARDING PATERNAL ENGAGEMENT ON WEBSITE OF MILITARY ONESOURCE
                  Section 561 of the National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2010 (Public Law 111–84; 10 U.S.C. 1781 note) is amended, in subsection (b)—
                  
                     (1)
                     by redesignating paragraphs (11) through (16) as paragraphs (12) through (17), respectively; and
                  
                  
                     (2)
                     by inserting, after paragraph (10), the following new paragraph (11):
                     
                        
                           (11)
                           Programs that encourage paternal engagement with the family.
                        
                        .
                     
                  
               
               
                  634.
                  MILITARY ONESOURCE FOR A REMARRIED SURVIVING SPOUSE OF A DECEASED MEMBER OF THE ARMED FORCES: ELIGIBILITY; INFORMATION
                  
                     (a)
                     Eligibility
                     A surviving spouse of a deceased member of the Armed Forces may use the Military OneSource program of the Department of Defense regardless of whether such surviving spouse remarries after the death of such member.
                  
                  
                     (b)
                     Website information
                     The Secretary of Defense shall publish and maintain, on the website for the Military OneSource program, information regarding casualty assistance for a surviving spouse described in subsection (a).
                  
               
               
                  635.
                  GUIDE FOR SURVIVORS TO CLAIM THE PERSONAL EFFECTS OF A DECEASED MEMBER OF THE ARMED FORCES
                  Not later than September 30, 2025, the Secretary of Defense, in consultation of the Secretaries of the military departments, shall publish and post on the website of Military OneSource a guide regarding how a survivor of a deceased member of the Armed Forces may—
                  
                     (1)
                     receive the personal effects of such member; and
                  
                  
                     (2)
                     file a claim with the Secretary of the military department concerned if the survivor believes such effects were disposed of incorrectly.
                  
               
               
                  636.
                  ADOPTION OR GUARDIANSHIP ASSISTANCE FOR MEMBERS OF THE ARMED FORCES AND VETERANS
                  Section 1052 of title 10, United States Code, is amended—
                  
                     (1)
                     by striking qualifying adoption expenses each place it appears and inserting qualifying expenses;
                  
                  
                     (2)
                     by striking the section heading and inserting 
                           Adoption or guardianship expenses
                        ;
                  
                  
                     (3)
                     in subsection (a)—
                     
                        (A)
                        in the heading, by striking 
                              to reimburse
                           ;
                     
                     
                        (B)
                        by striking carry out a program under which a member of the armed forces may be reimbursed and inserting pay; and
                     
                     
                        (C)
                        by striking adoption of a child and inserting adoption or guardianship of a child;
                     
                  
                  
                     (4)
                     in subsection (b)—
                     
                        (A)
                        in the heading, by inserting 
                              and guardianships
                            after 
                              Adoptions
                           ; 
                     
                     
                        (B)
                        by striking adoption each place it appears and inserting adoption or guardianship; and
                     
                     
                        (C)
                        by striking reimbursed and inserting paid;
                     
                  
                  
                     (5)
                     in subsection (d), by striking adoption benefits and inserting adoption or guardianship;
                  
                  
                     (6)
                     in subsection (e)—
                     
                        (A)
                        in paragraph (1)—
                        
                           (i)
                           by striking $2,000 and inserting $5,000; and
                        
                        
                           (ii)
                           by striking adoption of a child and inserting adoption or guardianship of a child; and 
                        
                     
                     
                        (B)
                        in paragraph (2)—
                        
                           (i)
                           by striking $5,000 and inserting $10,000; and
                        
                        
                           (ii)
                           by striking adoptions and inserting adoptions or guardianships;
                        
                     
                  
                  
                     (7)
                     in subsection (g)—
                     
                        (A)
                        in paragraph (1), by striking adoption each place it appears and inserting adoption or guardianship;
                     
                     
                        (B)
                        in paragraph (2)(A), by striking adoption each place it appears and inserting adoption or guardianship;
                     
                     
                        (C)
                        in paragraph (3), by striking adoption each place it appears and inserting adoption or guardianship; and
                     
                     
                        (D)
                        by adding at the end the following new paragraph:
                        
                           
                              (4)
                              The term guardianship means a legal guardianship, as such term is defined in section 475 of the Social Security Act (42 U.S.C. 675).
                           
                           ; and
                        
                     
                  
                  
                     (8)
                     by striking subsection (c) and redesignating subsections (d), (e), (f), and (g) as subsections (c), (d), (e), and (f), respectively.
                  
               
               
                  637.
                  EXPANSION OF PERIOD OF AVAILABILITY OF MILITARY ONESOURCE PROGRAM FOR RETIRED AND DISCHARGED MEMBERS OF THE ARMED FORCES AND THEIR IMMEDIATE FAMILIES
                  
                     (a)
                     In general
                     Under regulations prescribed by the Secretary of Defense, the period of eligibility for the Military OneSource program of the Department of Defense of an eligible individual retired, discharged, or otherwise released from the Armed Forces, and for the eligible immediate family members of such an individual, shall be the 18-month period beginning on the date of the retirement, discharge, or release, as applicable, of such individual.
                  
                  
                     (b)
                     Information to families
                     The Secretary shall, in such manner as the Secretary considers appropriate, inform military families and families of veterans of the Armed Forces of the wide range of benefits available through the Military OneSource program.
                  
               
            
            
               E
               Defense Resale Matters
               
                  641.
                  COMMISSARY AND EXCHANGE BENEFITS: EXPANSION FOR SURVIVING CHILDREN OF MEMBERS OF THE UNIFORMED SERVICES
                  
                     (a)
                     Expansion
                     Section 1061 of title 10, United States Code, is amended by adding at the end the following new subsection:
                     
                        
                           (c)
                           Dependent defined
                           In this section, the term dependent has the meaning given such term in section 1072 of this title, without regard to the age of a child of a member of a uniformed service.
                        
                        .
                     
                  
                  
                     (b)
                     Technical amendment
                     Such section is amended in the heading by striking 
                           Reserve and Guard
                        .
                  
               
               
                  642.
                  SINGLE-USE SHOPPING BAGS IN COMMISSARY STORES
                  Section 2485 of title 10, United States Code, is amended by adding at the end the following new subsection:
                  
                     
                        (j)
                        Single-use shopping bags
                        The Defense Commissary Agency may not prohibit the use of, or charge a fee for, single-use shopping bags in a commissary store.
                     
                     .
                  
               
               
                  643.
                  SALE OF CERTAIN SUPPLIES OF THE NAVY AND MARINE CORPS TO CERTAIN FORMER MEMBERS OF THE COAST GUARD
                  Section 8803 of title 10, United States Code, is amended by striking , or the Space Force and inserting , the Space Force, or the Coast Guard. 
               
               
                  644.
                  MWR RETAIL FACILITIES: USE BY CIVILIAN EMPLOYEES OF THE ARMED FORCES
                  
                     (a)
                     In general
                     
                        Chapter 54 of title 10, United States Code, is amended by adding at the end the following new section:
                     
                        
                           1067.
                           MWR FACILITIES: CIVILIAN EMPLOYEES
                           
                              (a)
                              Current employees
                              Subject to subsection (c) of this section and section 1066 of this title, a civilian employee of the Department of Defense or department in which the Coast Guard is operating shall be permitted to use MWR retail facilities on the same basis as members of the armed forces on active duty.
                           
                           
                              (b)
                              Retired employees
                              Subject to subsection (c), a retired civilian employee of the Department of Defense or department in which the Coast Guard is operating shall be permitted to use MWR retail facilities on the same basis as members of the armed forces on active duty.
                           
                           
                              (c)
                              Limitation
                              A civilian employee or retired civilian employee may not purchase tobacco or a military uniform at MWR retail facilities.
                           
                           
                              (d)
                              MWR retail facilities defined
                              In this section, the term MWR retail facilities has the meaning given such term in section 1063 of this title.
                           
                        
                        .
                     
                  
                  
                     (b)
                     Regulations
                     The Secretary of Defense shall prescribe regulations under section 1067 of such title, as added by this section, not later than 30 days after the date of the enactment of this Act.
                  
               
               
                  645.
                  PROHIBITION ON SALE OF GOODS FROM COMPANIES ENGAGED IN AN ANTI-ISRAEL BOYCOTT
                  Subchapter III of chapter 147 of title 10, United States Code, is amended by adding at the end the following new section: 
                  
                     
                        2497.
                        PROHIBITION ON SALE OF GOODS FROM COMPANIES ENGAGED IN AN ANTI-ISRAEL BOYCOTT
                        
                           (a)
                           Prohibition
                           The Secretary of Defense may not knowingly permit the sale, at a commissary store or military exchange, of any good, ware, article, or merchandise from any entity that has engaged in or engages in a boycott of the State of Israel.
                        
                        
                           (b)
                           Definitions
                           In this section:
                           
                              (1)
                              The term boycott action means, with respect to a target entity, the refusal to deal with such entity, the termination of business activities with such entity, or the limitation of commercial relations with such entity.
                           
                           
                              (2)
                              The term boycott of the State of Israel means a boycott action the target of which is—
                              
                                 (A)
                                 the State of Israel; and
                              
                              
                                 (B)
                                 
                                    (i)
                                    any company or individual doing business in or with the State of Israel; or
                                 
                                 
                                    (ii)
                                    any company authorized by, licensed by, or organized under the laws of the State of Israel to do business. 
                                 
                              
                           
                           
                              (3)
                              The term company—
                              
                                 (A)
                                 means a corporation, partnership, limited liability company, or similar entity; and
                              
                              
                                 (B)
                                 includes any wholly-owned subsidiary, majority-owned subsidiary, parent company, or affiliate of an entity described in subparagraph (A).
                              
                           
                        
                     
                     .
                  
               
            
            
               F
               Other Benefits, Reports, and Briefings
               
                  651.
                  PROMOTION OF TAX PREPARATION ASSISTANCE PROGRAMS
                  
                     (a)
                     In general
                     The Secretary of Defense shall ensure that each member of a covered Armed Force receives, not later than March 1 of each year, a written notice regarding the MilTax program and other tax preparation assistance programs furnished by the Secretary.
                  
                  
                     (b)
                     Report
                     Not later than six months after the date of the enactment of this Act, the Secretary shall submit to the Committees on Armed Services of the Senate and House of Representatives a report regarding the rates of participation by members of the covered Armed Forces in the programs described in subsection (a).
                  
                  
                     (c)
                     Covered Armed Force defined
                     In this section, the term covered Armed Force means the Army, Navy, Marine Corps, Air Force, or Space Force.
                  
               
               
                  652.
                  PILOT PROGRAM TO INFORM MEMBERS ABOUT CERTAIN INSURANCE PRODUCTS
                  
                     (a)
                     Establishment
                     Not later than September 30, 2025, the Secretary of Defense shall carry out a pilot program to provide to a member of the covered Armed Forces, through the website of Military OneSource (established under section 561 of the National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2010 (Public Law 111–84; 10 U.S.C. 1781 note)), information regarding insurance products intended to cover living expenses, at no cost to the Federal Government, that—
                     
                        (1)
                        may arise in the event of a cancer diagnosis of such member or a dependent of such member; and
                     
                     
                        (2)
                        the member may not be able to cover with the pay and benefits provided to such member by the Federal Government.
                     
                  
                  
                     (b)
                     Informational requirements
                     The Secretary shall ensure that information provided to a member under subsection (a)—
                     
                        (1)
                        only refers to insurance products—
                        
                           (A)
                           that comply with all applicable laws and regulations; and
                        
                        
                           (B)
                           that provide coverage in each State; and
                        
                     
                     
                        (2)
                        includes any other information the Secretary determines appropriate to help a member deal expenses described in subsection (a).
                     
                  
                  
                     (c)
                     Sunset
                     The pilot program under subsection (a) shall terminate on the day that is five years after the date of the enactment of this Act.
                  
                  
                     (d)
                     Report
                     Not later than six months after the pilot program under this section terminates, the Secretary shall submit to the Committees on Armed Services of the Senate and House of Representatives a report regarding such pilot program. Elements of the report shall include the following:
                     
                        (1)
                        The insurance products about which the Secretary provided information under subsection (a).
                     
                     
                        (2)
                        The number of members who purchased such insurance products.
                     
                     
                        (3)
                        Any other information the Secretary determines appropriate.
                     
                  
                  
                     (e)
                     Definitions
                     In this section:
                     
                        (1)
                        The term covered Armed Force means the Army, Navy, Marine Corps, Air Force, or Space Force.
                     
                     
                        (2)
                        The term State has the meaning given such term in section 901 of title 32, United States Code.
                     
                  
               
            
         
         
            VII
            HEALTH CARE PROVISIONS
            
               A
               TRICARE and Other Health Benefits
               
                  701.
                  ASSISTED REPRODUCTIVE TECHNOLOGY FOR CERTAIN MEMBERS OF THE ARMED FORCES AND THEIR DEPENDENTS UNDER TRICARE
                  
                     (a)
                     In general
                     
                        Chapter 55 of title 10, United States Code, is amended by inserting after section 1074o the following new section:
                     
                        
                           1074p.
                           ASSISTED REPRODUCTIVE TECHNOLOGY FOR CERTAIN MEMBERS OF THE ARMED FORCES AND THEIR DEPENDENTS UNDER TRICARE
                           
                              (a)
                              Coverage
                              The use of assisted reproductive technology (including in vitro fertilization, gamete retrieval, and gamete transfer) by a member of a covered armed force (or a dependent of such a member) shall be covered under TRICARE Prime or TRICARE Select.
                           
                           
                              (b)
                              Definitions
                              In this section:
                              
                                 (1)
                                 The term covered armed force means the Army, Navy, Marine Corps, Air Force, or Space Force.
                              
                              
                                 (2)
                                 The term member is used as such term is used in this title and does not include a former member.
                              
                           
                        
                        .
                     
                  
                  
                     (b)
                     Exclusion from contracts for former members and their dependents
                     Section 1086 of such title is amended—
                     
                        (1)
                        in subsection (c), in the matter preceding paragraph (1), by striking subsection (d) and inserting subsections (d) and (j); and
                     
                     
                        (2)
                        by adding at the end the following new subsection:
                        
                           
                              (j)
                              A plan contracted for under subsection (a) may not include coverage for services under section 1074p of this title.
                           
                           .
                        
                     
                  
               
               
                  702.
                  TRICARE DENTAL PLAN FOR THE SELECTED RESERVE
                  Section 1076a of title 10, United States Code, is amended—
                  
                     (1)
                     in subsection (a)—
                     
                        (A)
                        in paragraph (1)—
                        
                           (i)
                           in the header, by striking selected reserve and; and
                        
                        
                           (ii)
                           by striking for members of the Selected Reserve of the Ready Reserve and;
                        
                     
                     
                        (B)
                        in paragraph (2), in the header, by inserting Individual Ready after other; and 
                     
                     
                        (C)
                        by adding at the end the following new paragraph:
                        
                           
                              (5)
                              Plan for Selected Reserve
                              A dental benefits plan for members of the Selected Reserve of the Ready Reserve.
                           
                           ;
                        
                     
                  
                  
                     (2)
                     in subsection (d)—
                     
                        (A)
                        by redesignating paragraph (3) as paragraph (4); and
                     
                     
                        (B)
                        by inserting after paragraph (2) the following new paragraph:
                        
                           
                              (3)
                              No premium plans
                              
                                 (A)
                                 The dental insurance plan established under subsection (a)(5) is a no premium plan.
                              
                              
                                 (B)
                                 Members enrolled in a no premium plan may not be charged a premium for benefits provided under the plan. 
                              
                           
                           ;
                        
                     
                  
                  
                     (3)
                     in subsection (e)(2)(A), by striking a member of the Selected Reserve of the Ready Reserve or;
                  
                  
                     (4)
                     by redesignating subsections (f) through (k) as subsections (g) through (l), respectively;
                  
                  
                     (5)
                     by inserting after subsection (e) the following new subsection (f):
                     
                        
                           (f)
                           Copayments under no premium plans
                           A member who receives dental care under a no premium plan referred to in subsection (d)(3) shall pay no charge for any care described in subsection (c).
                        
                        ; and
                     
                  
                  
                     (6)
                     in subsection (i), as redesignated by paragraph (4), by striking subsection (k)(2) and inserting subsection (l)(2). 
                  
               
               
                  703.
                  EXTENSION OF EFFECTIVE DATE REGARDING CERTAIN IMPROVEMENTS TO THE TRICARE DENTAL PROGRAM
                  
                     (a)
                     Extension
                     Section 1076a of title 10, United States Code, is amended by striking January 1, 2026 each place it appears and inserting January 1, 2027. 
                  
                  
                     (b)
                     Rulemaking; briefing
                     Section 701 of the James M. Inhofe National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2023 (Public Law 117–263; 10 U.S.C. 1076a note) is amended—
                     
                        (1)
                        in subsection (b)—
                        
                           (A)
                           in paragraph (1), by striking January 1, 2025 and inserting January 1, 2026; and
                        
                        
                           (B)
                           in paragraph (2), by striking January 1, 2026 and inserting January 1, 2027; and
                        
                     
                     
                        (2)
                        in subsection (c), by striking and 2026 and inserting 2026, and 2027. 
                     
                  
               
               
                  704.
                  LICENSURE REQUIREMENT FOR CERTAIN HEALTH CARE PROFESSIONALS PROVIDING CERTAIN EXAMINATIONS TO MEMBERS OF THE RESERVE COMPONENTS
                  Section 1094(d)(2) of title 10, United States Code, is amended by inserting an examination or assessment under section 10206 of this title or after not covered under section 1091 of this title who is providing. 
               
               
                  705.
                  EXPANSION OF WOUNDED WARRIOR SERVICE DOG PROGRAM
                  Section 745 of the William M. (Mac) Thornberry National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2021 (10 U.S.C. 1071 note) is amended—
                  
                     (1)
                     by redesignating subsection (b) as subsection (c); and
                  
                  
                     (2)
                     by inserting after subsection (a) the following new subsection:
                     
                        
                           (b)
                           Grant authority
                           
                              (1)
                              In general
                              In carrying out the Wounded Warrior Service Dog Program, the Secretary of Defense shall award grants on a competitive basis directly to eligible entities in accordance with this subsection.
                           
                           
                              (2)
                              Eligible entities
                              To be eligible to receive a grant under this subsection, an entity shall be a nonprofit organization, the primary function of which is raising, training, and furnishing assistance dogs.
                           
                           
                              (3)
                              Applications
                              An eligible entity desiring a grant under this subsection shall submit to the Secretary of Defense an application at such time, in such manner, and containing such information and assurances as such Secretary determines appropriate.
                           
                           
                              (4)
                              Consideration for grant amount
                              In determining the amount of a grant awarded under this subsection, such Secretary shall consider—
                              
                                 (A)
                                 the merits of the application submitted pursuant to paragraph (3);
                              
                              
                                 (B)
                                 whether, and to what extent, there is demand by covered members or covered veterans for assistance dogs provided by the eligible entity desiring such grant; and
                              
                              
                                 (C)
                                 the capacity and capability of such eligible entity to raise and train assistance dogs to meet such demand.
                              
                           
                           
                              (5)
                              Use of funds
                              An eligible entity awarded a grant under this subsection shall use such grant to plan, design, establish, or operate a program to furnish assistance dogs to covered members and covered veterans, or any combination thereof.
                           
                           
                              (6)
                              Limitation on grant amount
                              The amount of a grant awarded under this subsection may not exceed $2,000,000.
                           
                        
                        .
                     
                  
               
               
                  706.
                  REIMBURSEMENTS UNDER THE TRICARE PROGRAM TO CANCER AND CHILDREN’S HOSPITALS FOR OUTPATIENT CARE OF BENEFICIARIES
                  
                     (a)
                     In general
                     When evaluating an application under the TRICARE program by a cancer hospital or a children’s hospital for a general temporary military contingency payment adjustment to a reimbursement amount under the TRICARE outpatient prospective payment system, the Secretary of Defense shall consider the adequacy of the TRICARE network and the availability of specialized health care services for affected beneficiaries.
                  
                  
                     (b)
                     Report
                     Not later than 180 days after the date of the enactment of this Act, the Secretary of Defense shall provide to the Committees on Armed Services of the Senate and House of Representatives a report regarding applications, payments, and adjustments described in subsection (a). The report shall include the following elements:
                     
                        (1)
                        A list of payment mechanisms available to the Secretary to make a reimbursement described in subsection (a).
                     
                     
                        (2)
                        A list of the authorities for such payment mechanisms.
                     
                     
                        (3)
                        A list of the payment adjustments the Secretary may make to a reimbursement amount described in subsection (a).
                     
                     
                        (4)
                        The factors the Secretary considers when determining whether to make such a payment adjustment.
                     
                     
                        (5)
                        Whether the Secretary measures the effects of a change to a reimbursement or payment adjustment when determining whether to continue such a payment adjustment.
                     
                     
                        (6)
                        Any identified differences in diagnoses or the complexity of care, for pediatric TRICARE outpatients at children's hospitals and at other hospitals.
                     
                     
                        (7)
                        The extent to which differences in such payments reflect differences in the complexity of care for such patients.
                     
                     
                        (8)
                        Recently identified trends in the use of children's hospital services by pediatric TRICARE patients.
                     
                  
               
               
                  707.
                  NOTICES TO A DEPENDENT CHILD REGARDING IMPENDING LOSS OF COVERAGE UNDER TRICARE PROGRAM
                  
                     (a)
                     Notice required
                     The Secretary of Defense shall notify an individual who is a beneficiary under the TRICARE program on the basis that such individual is the dependent child of a member of a covered Armed Force, and such member and the spouse of such member (if applicable), before the end, on the 21st birthday of such individual, of the eligibility of such individual for TRICARE on such basis.
                  
                  
                     (b)
                     Schedule
                     The Secretary shall issue a notification under subsection (a)—
                     
                        (1)
                        nine, six, three, and one month before such birthday; and
                     
                     
                        (2)
                        on such birthday.
                     
                  
                  
                     (c)
                     Methods
                     The Secretary shall issue such notice by mail, email, and text message.
                  
                  
                     (d)
                     ID card
                     The Secretary shall ensure that the spouse of a member may complete and submit a form to renew the identification card provided by the Secretary to such dependent child.
                  
                  
                     (e)
                     Covered Armed Force defined
                     In this section, the term covered Armed Force means the Army, Navy, Marine Corps, Air Force, or Space Force.
                  
               
               
                  708.
                  PILOT PROGRAM TO TREAT PREGNANCY AS A QUALIFYING EVENT FOR ENROLLMENT IN TRICARE SELECT
                  
                     (a)
                     Establishment
                     Not later than 180 days after the date of the enactment of this Act, the Secretary of Defense shall commence a five-year pilot program under which—
                     
                        (1)
                        the Secretary shall treat pregnancy as a qualifying event, under section 1099(b)(1)(B) of title 10, United States Code, for enrollment in TRICARE Select by an eligible beneficiary; and
                     
                     
                        (2)
                        a member of the Army, Navy, Marine Corps, Air Force, or Space Force on active duty may enroll in TRICARE Select under paragraph (1) for a period that ends not later than 180 days after the end of pregnancy.
                     
                  
                  
                     (b)
                     Initial briefing
                     Not later than one year after the date of the enactment of this Act, the Secretary shall provide to the appropriate congressional committees a briefing on the status of the pilot program under subsection (a).
                  
                  
                     (c)
                     Annual report
                     Not later than one year after the Secretary commences the pilot program under subsection (a), and annually thereafter for the next four years, the Secretary shall provide to the appropriate congressional committees a report on the pilot program. Each such report shall include the number of covered enrollment changes, disaggregated by—
                     
                        (1)
                        month, beginning with January, 2023; and
                     
                     
                        (2)
                        whether the eligible beneficiary made such covered enrollment change—
                        
                           (A)
                           because the eligible beneficiary is a member of the Army, Navy, Marine Corps, Air Force, or Space Force on active duty who may enroll in TRICARE Select under the pilot program;
                        
                        
                           (B)
                           because the eligible beneficiary is a member of the uniformed services who separated from active duty;
                        
                        
                           (C)
                           because the eligible beneficiary is a member of the uniformed services who returned to active duty;
                        
                        
                           (D)
                           because the eligible beneficiary is a dependent of a member of the uniformed services who separated from active duty;
                        
                        
                           (E)
                           because the eligible beneficiary is a dependent of a member of the uniformed services who returned to active duty; or
                        
                        
                           (F)
                           based on the treatment, under the pilot program, of pregnancy as a qualifying event for enrollment in TRICARE Select.
                        
                     
                  
                  
                     (d)
                     Definitions
                     In this section:
                     
                        (1)
                        The term covered enrollment change means a change to a previous election by an eligible beneficiary under subsection (b)(1) of section 1099 of title 10, United States Code, to enroll in a health care plan designated under subsection (c) of such section.
                     
                     
                        (2)
                        The term eligible beneficiary means an individual—
                        
                           (A)
                           eligible to enroll in TRICARE Select under section 1075(b) of title 10, United States Code; or
                        
                        
                           (B)
                           a member of the Army, Navy, Marine Corps, Air Force, or Space Force on active duty.
                        
                     
                     
                        (3)
                        The terms TRICARE program and TRICARE Select have the meanings given such terms in section 1072 of title 10, United States Code.
                     
                     
                        (4)
                        The term appropriate congressional committees means—
                        
                           (A)
                           the Committee on Armed Services of the House of Representatives;
                        
                        
                           (B)
                           the Committee on Transportation and Infrastructure of the House of Representatives;
                        
                        
                           (C)
                           the Committee on Energy and Commerce of the House of Representatives;
                        
                        
                           (D)
                           the Committee on Armed Services of the Senate.
                        
                     
                  
               
               
                  709.
                  PILOT PROGRAM TO PREVENT PERINATAL MENTAL HEALTH CONDITIONS IN PREGNANT AND POSTPARTUM MEMBERS OF THE ARMED FORCES AND COVERED BENEFICIARIES
                  
                     (a)
                     Establishment
                     Not later than 180 days after the date of the enactment of this Act, the Secretary of Defense shall establish a pilot program to assess the feasibility and effectiveness of providing, through military medical treatment facilities, covered prevention programs to pregnant and postpartum members of the Armed Forces and covered beneficiaries.
                  
                  
                     (b)
                     Requirements
                     To carry out the pilot program, the Secretary shall take the following steps:
                     
                        (1)
                        Integrate covered prevention programs into existing maternal or pediatric care or programming furnished through military medical treatment facilities, including—
                        
                           (A)
                           primary care;
                        
                        
                           (B)
                           obstetric care;
                        
                        
                           (C)
                           pediatric care; and
                        
                        
                           (D)
                           family or parenting programs.
                        
                     
                     
                        (2)
                        Ease participation in covered prevention programs by pregnant and postpartum members of the Armed Forces and covered beneficiaries by—
                        
                           (A)
                           offering covered prevention programs at various times and locations; and
                        
                        
                           (B)
                           providing child care to participants.
                        
                     
                     
                        (3)
                        Provide technical assistance regarding the implementation of covered prevention programs to personnel of military medical treatment facilities selected for the pilot program.
                     
                     
                        (4)
                        Study the effectiveness of the pilot program in preventing the onset, or reducing the symptoms, of perinatal mental health conditions of pregnant and postpartum members of the Armed Forces and covered beneficiaries. 
                     
                  
                  
                     (c)
                     Locations
                     In selecting locations for the pilot program, the Secretary shall—
                     
                        (1)
                        select at least two military medical treatment facilities per market of the Defense Health Agency;
                     
                     
                        (2)
                        select geographically diverse locations inside and outside the continental United States; and
                     
                     
                        (3)
                        give priority to a military medical treatment facility that already operates a maternal health program or a Women’s Clinic.
                     
                  
                  
                     (d)
                     Promotional campaign
                     The Secretary shall promote the pilot program to increase awareness and encourage participation.
                  
                  
                     (e)
                     Reports
                     
                        (1)
                        Annual report
                        Not later than 180 days after the end of each year of operation of the pilot program, the Secretary shall submit to the appropriate congressional committees a report on the pilot program during such year of operation. Each such report shall include the number of pregnant and postpartum members of the Armed Forces and covered beneficiaries who participate in the pilot program, disaggregated by—
                        
                           (A)
                           by type of prevention program;
                        
                        
                           (B)
                           Armed Force;
                        
                        
                           (C)
                           military occupational specialty, in the case of a member;
                        
                        
                           (D)
                           rank;
                        
                        
                           (E)
                           marital status;
                        
                        
                           (F)
                           birth setting of delivery;
                        
                        
                           (G)
                           sex;
                        
                        
                           (H)
                           age;
                        
                        
                           (I)
                           race; and
                        
                        
                           (J)
                           ethnicity.
                        
                     
                     
                        (2)
                        Final report
                        Not later than one year after the pilot program terminates, the Secretary shall submit to the appropriate congressional committees, and publish, a final report. Such report shall include the following elements:
                        
                           (A)
                           The total number of participants, described in, and disaggregated as in, paragraph (1), during the term of the pilot program.
                        
                        
                           (B)
                           The assessment of the Secretary whether the pilot program was effective in preventing the onset, or reducing the symptoms, of perinatal mental health conditions of pregnant and postpartum members of the Armed Forces and covered beneficiaries.
                        
                        
                           (C)
                           The recommendations of the Secretary whether, and how (including with regards to cost), to expand or make permanent the pilot program.
                        
                     
                  
                  
                     (f)
                     Termination
                     The pilot program shall terminate on September 30, 2028.
                  
                  
                     (g)
                     Definitions
                     In this section:
                     
                        (1)
                        The term appropriate congressional committees means—
                        
                           (A)
                           the Committee on Armed Services of the House of Representatives;
                        
                        
                           (B)
                           the Committee on Transportation and Infrastructure of the House of Representatives; and
                        
                        
                           (C)
                           the Committee on Armed Services of the Senate.
                        
                     
                     
                        (2)
                        The term covered beneficiary has the meaning given such term in section 1072 of title 10, United States Code.
                     
                     
                        (3)
                        The term covered prevention program means an evidence-based activity that the Secretary determines has been proven to avert the onset. or decrease the symptoms, of a perinatal mental health condition.
                     
                     
                        (4)
                        The term military medical treatment facility means a facility described in section 1073d of title 10, United States Code.
                     
                     
                        (5)
                        The term perinatal mental health condition means a mental health disorder that first manifests during pregnancy or the one-year postpartum period.
                     
                  
               
               
                  710.
                  PILOT PROGRAM ON CRYOPRESERVATION AND STORAGE OF GAMETES OF CERTAIN MEMBERS OF THE ARMED FORCES
                  
                     (a)
                     Establishment
                     The Secretary of Defense shall establish a pilot program to reimburse covered members for expenses incurred in the testing, cryopreservation, shipping, and storage of gametes of such covered members in a private storage facility determined appropriate by the Secretary.
                  
                  
                     (b)
                     Amount of reimbursement
                     A covered member shall receive not more than—
                     
                        (1)
                        $500 in the case of a member who preserves sperm; and
                     
                     
                        (2)
                        $10,000 in the case of a member who preserves eggs.
                     
                  
                  
                     (c)
                     Information to participants
                     The Secretary shall provide to a covered member participating in the pilot program information regarding providers of services described in subsection (a) located near the covered member.
                  
                  
                     (d)
                     Implementation schedule
                     Not later than—
                     
                        (1)
                        90 days after the date of the enactment of this Act, the Secretary shall notify covered members of the pilot program; and
                     
                     
                        (2)
                        120 days after the date of the enactment of this Act, the Secretary shall—
                        
                           (A)
                           submit to the Committees on Armed Services of the Senate and the House of Representatives an implementation plan for the pilot program; and
                        
                        
                           (B)
                           carry out the pilot program.
                        
                     
                  
                  
                     (e)
                     No liability or contractual obligation
                     The United States shall not be—
                     
                        (1)
                        considered a party to any agreement between a covered member who participates in the pilot program and a private gamete storage facility; or
                     
                     
                        (2)
                        responsible for the management of gametes cryopreserved, or stored for which a covered member receives reimbursement under such pilot program.
                     
                  
                  
                     (f)
                     Advanced medical directive
                     A covered member who participates in the pilot program shall complete an advanced medical directive that specifies how gametes preserved under the pilot program shall be handled upon the death of such covered member.
                  
                  
                     (g)
                     Promotion of pilot program
                     The Secretary shall promote the pilot program to covered members in the course of annual health examinations and pre-deployment screenings.
                  
                  
                     (h)
                     Report
                     Not later than one year after the Secretary establishes the pilot program, the Secretary shall submit to the Committees on Armed Services of the Senate and the House of Representatives a report on the pilot program. Such report shall include the following:
                     
                        (1)
                        Usage by covered members.
                     
                     
                        (2)
                        Demographics of participating covered members.
                     
                     
                        (3)
                        Costs of services to participating covered members.
                     
                     
                        (4)
                        The feasibility of expanding the pilot program.
                     
                     
                        (5)
                        The feasibility of making the pilot program permanent.
                     
                     
                        (6)
                        Other information determined appropriate by the Secretary.
                     
                  
                  
                     (i)
                     Termination
                     The pilot program shall terminate one year after the date of the enactment of this Act.
                  
                  
                     (j)
                     Definitions
                     In this section:
                     
                        (1)
                        The term covered member means a member of a covered Armed Force serving on active duty—
                        
                           (A)
                           who has received orders (including deployment orders) for duty for which the member may receive hazardous duty pay under section 351 of title 37, United States Code;
                        
                        
                           (B)
                           whom the Secretary determines is likely to receive such orders in the next 120 days;
                        
                        
                           (C)
                           who will, under orders, be geographically separated from a spouse, domestic partner, or dating partner for a period exceeding 180 days; or
                        
                        
                           (D)
                           whose application to participate in the pilot program that the Secretary approves.
                        
                     
                     
                        (2)
                        The term covered Armed Force means the Army, Navy, Marine Corps, Air Force, or Space Force.
                     
                     
                        (3)
                        The term deployment has the meaning given such term in section 991(b) of title 10, United States Code.
                     
                  
               
               
                  711.
                  TEMPORARY REQUIREMENT FOR CONTRACEPTION COVERAGE PARITY UNDER THE TRICARE PROGRAM
                  
                     (a)
                     In general
                     The Secretary of Defense shall ensure that, during the one-year period beginning on the date that is 30 days after the date of the enactment of the Act, the imposition or collection of cost-sharing for certain services is prohibited as follows:
                     
                        (1)
                        Pharmacy benefits program
                        Notwithstanding subparagraphs (A), (B), and (C), of section 1074g(a)(6) of title 10, United States Code, cost-sharing may not be imposed or collected with respect to any eligible covered beneficiary for any prescription contraceptive on the uniform formulary provided through a retail pharmacy described in section 1074g(a)(2)(E)(ii) of such title or through the national mail-order pharmacy program of the TRICARE Program.
                     
                     
                        (2)
                        TRICARE Select
                        Notwithstanding any provision under section 1075 of title 10, United States Code, cost-sharing may not be imposed or collected for a covered service that is provided by a network provider under the TRICARE program to an eligible covered beneficiary under such section.
                     
                     
                        (3)
                        TRICARE Prime
                        Notwithstanding subsections (a), (b), and (c) of section 1075a of title 10, United States Code, cost-sharing may not be imposed or collected for a covered service that is provided under TRICARE Prime to an eligible covered beneficiary under such section.
                     
                  
                  
                     (b)
                     Definitions
                     In this section:
                     
                        (1)
                        The term covered service means any method of contraception approved, granted, or cleared by the Food and Drug Administration, any contraceptive care (including with respect to insertion, removal, and follow up), any sterilization procedure, or any patient education or counseling service provided in connection with any such method, care, or procedure.
                     
                     
                        (2)
                        The term eligible covered beneficiary means an eligible covered beneficiary (as such term is used in section 1074g of title 10, United States Code) on the basis of being—
                        
                           (A)
                           a member of the Army, Navy, Marine Corps, Air Force, or Space Force; or
                        
                        
                           (B)
                           a dependent of such a member.
                        
                     
                     
                        (3)
                        The terms TRICARE Program and TRICARE Prime have the meaning given such terms in section 1072 of title 10, United States Code.
                     
                  
               
               
                  712.
                  TRICARE COVERAGE FOR INCREASED SUPPLY FOR CONTRACEPTION
                  
                     (a)
                     In general
                     Beginning not less than 180 days after the date of the enactment of the Act, contraceptive supplies of up to 365 days shall be covered for any eligible covered beneficiary to obtain, including in a single fill or refill, at the option of such beneficiary, the total days of supply (not to exceed a 365-day supply) for a contraceptive on the uniform formulary provided through a military treatment facility pharmacy, retail pharmacy described in section 1074g(a)(2)(E)(ii) of such title, or through the national mail-order pharmacy program of the TRICARE Program.
                  
                  
                     (b)
                     Outreach
                     Beginning not later than 90 days after the implementation of coverage under subsection (a), the Secretary shall conduct such outreach activities as are necessary to inform health care providers and individuals who are enrolled in the TRICARE program of such coverage and the requirements to receive such coverage.
                  
                  
                     (c)
                     Definitions
                     In this section:
                     
                        (1)
                        The term covered Armed Force means the Army, Navy, Marine Corps, Air Force, or Space Force.
                     
                     
                        (2)
                        The term eligible covered beneficiary means an eligible covered beneficiary as such term is used in section 1074g of title 10, United States Code who is—
                        
                           (A)
                           a member of a covered Armed Force serving on active duty; or
                        
                        
                           (B)
                           a dependent of a member described in subparagraph (A).
                        
                     
                     
                        (3)
                        The terms TRICARE Program and TRICARE Prime have the meaning given such terms in section 1072 of title 10, United States Code.
                     
                  
               
               
                  713.
                  PROHIBITION ON COVERAGE OF CERTAIN GENDER TRANSITION PROCEDURES AND RELATED SERVICES UNDER TRICARE PROGRAM
                  
                     Chapter 55 of title 10, United States Code, is amended by inserting after section 1076f the following new section (and conforming the table of sections at the beginning of such chapter accordingly): 
                  
                     
                        1076g.
                        TRICARE PROGRAM: PROHIBITION ON COVERAGE AND FURNISHMENT OF CERTAIN GENDER TRANSITION SURGERIES AND RELATED SERVICES
                        
                           (a)
                           Prohibition
                           The medical care to which individuals are entitled to under this chapter does not include the services described in subsection (b) and the Secretary of Defense may not furnish any such service.
                        
                        
                           (b)
                           Services described
                           The services described in this subsection are the following:
                           
                              (1)
                              Gender transition surgeries furnished for the purpose of the gender alteration of an individual who identifies as transgender.
                           
                           
                              (2)
                              Hormone treatments furnished for the purpose of the gender alteration of an individual who identifies as transgender.
                           
                        
                     
                     .
                  
               
               
                  714.
                  PROHIBITION ON PAYMENT AND REIMBURSEMENT BY DEPARTMENT OF DEFENSE OF EXPENSES RELATING TO ABORTION SERVICES
                  
                     (a)
                     Sense of Congress
                     It is the sense of Congress that—
                     
                        (1)
                        consistent with section 1093 of title 10, United States Code, the Department of Defense may not use any funds for abortions except where the life of the mother would be endangered if the fetus were carried to term or in a case in which the pregnancy is the result of an act of rape or incest;
                     
                     
                        (2)
                        the Secretary of Defense has no legal authority to implement any policies in which funds are to be used for such purpose; and
                     
                     
                        (3)
                        the Department of Defense Memorandum titled Ensuring Access to Reproductive Health Care, dated October 20, 2022, is therefore unlawful and must be rescinded.
                     
                  
                  
                     (b)
                     Repeal of memorandum
                     
                        (1)
                        Repeal
                        The Department of Defense memorandum titled Ensuring Access to Reproductive Health Care, dated October 20, 2022, shall have no force or effect.
                     
                     
                        (2)
                        Prohibition on availability of funds to carry out memorandum
                        No funds may be obligated or expended to carry out the memorandum specified in paragraph (1) or any successor to such memorandum.
                     
                  
                  
                     (c)
                     Prohibition
                     Section 1093 of title 10, United States Code, is amended by adding at the end the following new subsection:
                     
                        
                           (c)
                           Prohibition on payment or reimbursement of certain fees
                           
                              (1)
                              The Secretary of Defense may not pay for or reimburse any fees or expenses, including travel expenses, relating to a health-care professional gaining a license in a State if the purpose of gaining such license is to provide abortion services.
                           
                           
                              (2)
                              In this subsection:
                              
                                 (A)
                                 The term health-care professional means a member of the armed forces, civilian employee of the Department of Defense, personal services contractor under section 1091 of this title, or other individual who provides health care at a military medical treatment facility.
                              
                              
                                 (B)
                                 The term license has the meaning given that term in section 1094 of this title.
                              
                           
                        
                        .
                     
                  
               
            
            
               B
               Health Care Administration
               
                  721.
                  IDENTIFICATION IN PATIENT MEDICAL RECORDS OF AFFILIATION OF CERTAIN NON-DEPARTMENT OF DEFENSE HEALTH CARE PROVIDERS
                  
                     Chapter 55 of title 10, United States Code, is amended by inserting after section 1091 the following new section:
                  
                     
                        1091a.
                        IDENTIFICATION IN PATIENT MEDICAL RECORDS OF AFFILIATION OF CERTAIN NON-DEPARTMENT OF DEFENSE HEALTH CARE PROVIDERS
                        
                           (a)
                           In general
                           The Secretary of Defense shall ensure that medical records of the Department of Defense include the organizational affiliation of any covered health care provider identified in such medical records.
                        
                        
                           (b)
                           Covered health care provider defined
                           In this section, the term covered health care provider means a health care provider who is not—
                           
                              (1)
                              a member of the uniformed services;
                           
                           
                              (2)
                              an employee of the Department of Defense;
                           
                           
                              (3)
                              an employee of another agency of the Federal Government detailed to the Department of Defense;
                           
                           
                              (4)
                              a personal services contractor under section 1091 of this title; or
                           
                           
                              (5)
                              a volunteer under section 1588 of this title.
                           
                        
                     
                     .
                  
               
               
                  722.
                  MANDATORY TRAINING ON HEALTH EFFECTS OF PERFLUOROALKYL OR POLY­FLUOR­O­AL­KYL SUBSTANCES
                  The Secretary of Defense shall provide to each health care provider of the Department of Defense mandatory training regarding the potential health effects of perfluoroalkyl or polyfluoroalkyl substances.
               
               
                  723.
                  TREATMENTS FOR ACUTE RADIATION SYNDROME INCURRED BY OVERSEAS PERSONNEL: PROCUREMENT; PRE-POSITIONING
                  
                     (a)
                     Requirements
                     Not later than 180 days after the date of the enactment of this Act, the Secretary of Defense shall establish requirements for the procurement and pre-positioning of treatments for acute radiation syndrome and thermal burns incurred by members of the Armed Forces assigned to duty locations outside the United States. In establishing such requirements, the Secretary shall take into account—
                     
                        (1)
                        the number of such members deployed in or near conflict zones wherein the use of nuclear weapons is a threat; and
                     
                     
                        (2)
                        peer-reviewed and published scientific studies regarding the efficacy and operational requirements of such treatments.
                     
                  
                  
                     (b)
                     Briefing
                     Not later than September 30, 2025, the Secretary shall submit to the Committees on Armed Services of the Senate and House of Representatives a briefing regarding the requirements established under subsection (a).
                  
                  
                     (c)
                     Definitions
                     In this section:
                     
                        (1)
                        The term biological product has the meaning given such term in section 319F–1 of the Public Health Service Act (42 U.S.C. 247d-6a).
                     
                     
                        (2)
                        The term device and drug have the meaning given such terms in section 201 of the Federal Food, Drug, and Cosmetic Act (21 U.S.C. 321).
                     
                     
                        (3)
                        The term treatment means a biological product, device, or drug approved, licensed, cleared, or otherwise authorized by the Food and Drug Administration.
                     
                  
               
               
                  724.
                  PARTNERSHIPS WITH CIVILIAN ORGANIZATIONS FOR ARTHROSCOPIC SURGICAL TRAINING
                  
                     (a)
                     Establishment
                     Not later than 180 days after the date of the enactment of this Act, the Secretary of Defense shall establish a program—
                     
                        (1)
                        to establish partnerships with public, private, and non-profit entities that provide short-term training, regarding arthroscopic surgery, to physicians of the Department of Defense; and
                     
                     
                        (2)
                        to increase operational readiness of members of the covered Armed Forces.
                     
                  
                  
                     (b)
                     Metrics
                     Not later than 90 days after the date of the enactment of this Act, the Secretary shall establish metrics to evaluate the effectiveness of the program.
                  
                  
                     (c)
                     Briefing; report
                     
                        (1)
                        Initial briefing
                        Not later than 120 days after the date of the enactment of this Act, the Secretary shall submit to the Committees on Armed Services of the Senate and the House of Representatives a report on the program under this section. Such report shall include the following elements:
                        
                           (A)
                           A description of the program.
                        
                        
                           (B)
                           The metrics established under subsection (b).
                        
                        
                           (C)
                           Other matters regarding the program that the Secretary determines appropriate.
                        
                     
                     
                        (2)
                        Final report
                        Not later than 180 days after the termination of the program under this section, the Secretary shall submit to the Committees on Armed Services of the Senate and the House of Representatives a report on the program. Such report shall include the following elements:
                        
                           (A)
                           A list of the entities with which the Secretary established partnerships under the program.
                        
                        
                           (B)
                           The assessment of the Secretary of the effectiveness of the program, based on criteria including—
                           
                              (i)
                              the metrics established under subsection (b);
                           
                           
                              (ii)
                              physical health assessment data, including questions on the Electronic Physical Health Assessment survey;
                           
                           
                              (iii)
                              physical readiness test data;
                           
                           
                              (iv)
                              postoperative survey data collected after a musculoskeletal intervention; and
                           
                           
                              (v)
                              other matters regarding the program determined by the Secretary.
                           
                        
                        
                           (C)
                           The assessment of the Secretary regarding how much money the program saved the Department.
                        
                        
                           (D)
                           Recommendations of the Secretary for additional legislation or administrative action based on the program.
                        
                     
                  
                  
                     (d)
                     Termination
                     The program under this section shall terminate five years after the Secretary establishes such program.
                  
                  
                     (e)
                     Covered Armed Force defined
                     In this section, the term covered Armed Force means the Army, Navy, Marine Corps, Air Force, or Space Force.
                  
               
               
                  725.
                  WOMEN’S HEART HEALTH EDUCATIONAL MATERIAL: DEVELOPMENT; DISTRIBUTION
                  
                     (a)
                     Women’s Heart Health Educational Materials
                     Not later than 180 days after the date of the enactment of this Act, the Secretary of Defense, acting through the Director of the Defense Health Agency, shall develop and distribute evidence-based educational materials for health care providers and patients in the military health care system regarding women’s cardiovascular health.
                  
                  
                     (b)
                     Patient-centered materials
                     Materials for patients shall include information on the following:
                     
                        (1)
                        Women’s risk factors for heart disease.
                     
                     
                        (2)
                        Actions women can take to improve or maintain positive cardiovascular health.
                     
                     
                        (3)
                        The presentation and symptoms of cardiovascular disease, including symptoms that may be more common or only occur in women.
                     
                     
                        (4)
                        Symptoms of a cardiovascular event, including symptoms that may be more common or only occur in women;
                     
                  
                  
                     (c)
                     Health professional materials
                     
                        (1)
                        Materials for a health care provider shall—
                        
                           (A)
                           include information relevant to the provision of cardiovascular health care; and
                        
                        
                           (B)
                           be specific to the practice of such provider.
                        
                     
                     
                        (2)
                        Materials shall include the following information:
                        
                           (A)
                           Gender-based differences in the presentation of cardiovascular disease.
                        
                        
                           (B)
                           Gender-based differences in the causes and presentation of cardiovascular events, including heart attacks,
                        
                        
                           (C)
                           Gender-based differences in appropriate methods to identify and treat cardiovascular disease.
                        
                        
                           (D)
                           Gender-based differences in risk factors for cardiovascular disease.
                        
                        
                           (E)
                           Cardiovascular disease prevention and treatment guidelines, including those that are specifically for women.
                        
                        
                           (F)
                           Guidance on counseling patients with respect to risks, presentation, and treatment of cardiovascular disease.
                        
                     
                  
                  
                     (d)
                     Distribution
                     The Secretary shall distribute such materials to health care providers in the military health care system and TRICARE beneficiaries. Such materials may be physical or digital.
                  
               
               
                  726.
                  PROTOCOL ON USE OF ORAL REHYDRATION SOLUTION
                  Not later than 120 days after the date of the enactment of this Act, the, the Secretary of Defense shall develop a clear and comprehensive protocol for the use of oral rehydration solutions in preventing heat casualties, dehydration, and hyponatremia in initial training. In the development of such protocol, the Secretary shall incorporate—
                  
                     (1)
                     the latest data, analysis and information regarding the use of oral rehydration solutions by Special Operations Command; 
                  
                  
                     (2)
                     the latest data, analysis and information regarding the use of oral rehydration solutions by professional sports teams;
                  
                  
                     (3)
                     the latest data, analysis and information regarding the use of oral rehydration solutions by the National Training Center, Fort Irwin; and 
                  
                  
                     (4)
                     the guidance included in the June 20, 2016, Army Research Institute of Environmental Medicine report entitled Guidance Concerning Commercial Electrolyte Replacement Beverages and Hyponatremia Risk During Hot Weather Training.
                  
               
               
                  727.
                  STUDY ON LIFTING OUTPATIENT REHABILITATION THERAPY MAXIMUMS
                  
                     (a)
                     Study
                     The Secretary of Defense shall conduct a study to analyze the feasibility of lifting outpatient rehabilitation therapy maximums for active-duty members of covered armed forces who are TRICARE beneficiaries and have suffered a brain injury in the course of performing active duty. The study shall also examine a range of therapy services such as restorative therapies and therapies intended to improve cognitive and functional capabilities.
                  
                  
                     (b)
                     Report
                     Not later than 1 year after the date of the enactment of this Act, the Secretary of Defense shall submit to the Congress a report setting forth the findings and conclusions of the study conducted pursuant to subsection (a).
                  
                  
                     (c)
                     Covered armed forces defined
                     In this section, the term covered Armed Forces means the Army, Navy, Marine Corps, Air Force, and Space Force.
                  
               
               
                  728.
                  TRAUMATIC BRAIN INJURY OVERSIGHT STRATEGY AND ACTION PLAN
                  
                     (a)
                     Strategy and plan required
                     The Secretary of Defense shall develop and implement a Traumatic Brain Injury Oversight Strategy and Action Plan that includes at a minimum the following:
                     
                        (1)
                        Standardized monitoring, treatment, and referral guidelines for Traumatic Brain Injury (TBI) programs across all covered armed forces.
                     
                     
                        (2)
                        A review and update of the current brain injury diagnostic tools used by such programs.
                     
                     
                        (3)
                        Standardized, 72-hour follow-up requirements for all TBI patients, including protocols for the treatment and observation during such follow-up appointments.
                     
                     
                        (4)
                        Oversight and documentation standards to aid in identification, treatment, tracking, and data collection.
                     
                  
                  
                     (b)
                     Implementation timeline
                     The oversight strategy and action plan required by subsection (a) shall be completed and in use not later than 1 year after the date of the enactment of this Act.
                  
                  
                     (c)
                     Comptroller General report
                     Not later than 1 year after the date of the enactment of this Act, the Comptroller General of the United States shall submit to Congress a report setting forth the findings and conclusions of a full review and update on the implementation of the Brain Injury Oversight Strategy and Action Plan required by subsection (a).
                  
                  
                     (d)
                     Covered armed forces defined
                     In this section, the term covered Armed Forces means the Army, Navy, Marine Corps, Air Force, and Space Force.
                  
               
               
                  729.
                  EXPANSION OF RECOGNITION BY THE DEFENSE HEALTH AGENCY OF CERTIFYING BODIES FOR PHYSICIANS
                  
                     (a)
                     Expansion
                     Not later than 180 days after the date of the enactment of this Act, the Director of the Defense Health Agency shall revise the policy of the Defense Health Agency regarding the credentialing and privileging under the military health system to expand the recognition of certifying bodies for physicians under such policy to a wide range of additional board certifications in medical specialties and subspecialties. The following certifying bodies shall be so recognized:
                     
                        (1)
                        The member boards of the American Board of Medical Specialties.
                     
                     
                        (2)
                        The Bureau of Osteopathic Specialists of the American Osteopathic Association.
                     
                     
                        (3)
                        The American Board of Foot and Ankle Surgery.
                     
                     
                        (4)
                        The American Board of Podiatric Medicine.
                     
                     
                        (5)
                        The American Board of Oral and Maxillofacial Surgery.
                     
                  
                  
                     (b)
                     Standards for recognition of other certifying bodies
                     To be recognized under subsection (a), a certifying body shall—
                     
                        (1)
                        be an organization described in section 501(c) of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986 and exempt from taxation under section 501(a) of that Code;
                     
                     
                        (2)
                        maintain a process to define, periodically review, enforce, and update specific standards regarding knowledge and skills of the specialty or subspecialty;
                     
                     
                        (3)
                        administer a psychometrically valid assessment to determine whether a physician meets standards for initial certification, recertification, or continuing certification;
                     
                     
                        (4)
                        establish and enforce a code of professional conduct; and
                     
                     
                        (5)
                        require that, in order to be considered a board certified specialty physician, a physician must satisfy—
                        
                           (A)
                           the certifying body's applicable requirements for initial certification; and
                        
                        
                           (B)
                           any applicable recertification or continuing certification requirements of the certifying body that granted the initial certification.
                        
                     
                  
               
               
                  729A.
                  IMPROVEMENTS TO TRICARE PROVIDER DIRECTORIES
                  
                     (a)
                     Verification; updates
                     A managed support contractor that supports TRICARE and maintains a directory of health care providers shall verify and update such directory not less than once every 90 days.
                  
                  
                     (b)
                     Databases
                     A managed support contractor described in subsection (a) shall update a database not later than two days after receipt of information that affects such database.
                  
                  
                     (c)
                     Annual reviews
                     The Director of the Defense Health Agency shall review directories described in subsection (a) not less than once each year.
                  
               
               
                  729B.
                  COMBATING OBESITY IN CERTAIN ARMED FORCES
                  
                     (a)
                     Strategy and educational campaign
                     
                        (1)
                        In general
                        Not later than 1 year after the date of the enactment of this Act, the Secretary of Defense shall—
                        
                           (A)
                           develop a strategy to align the obesity-related programs of the Department of Defense with the classification of obesity as a medically accepted disease; and
                        
                        
                           (B)
                           conduct an educational campaign to promote awareness, diagnosis, and treatment of obesity as a disease in the covered Armed Forces.
                        
                     
                     
                        (2)
                        Requirements for strategy
                        The strategy developed under paragraph (1)(A) shall include the following:
                        
                           (A)
                           A plan to coordinate obesity-related programs across the Department of Defense to treat obesity as a disease and reduce the prevalence of obesity in the covered Armed Forces.
                        
                        
                           (B)
                           An assessment of the effectiveness of health programs of the Department of Defense that are intended to educate, prevent, or treat obesity among members of the covered Armed Forces, and a plan to modify or update such programs to treat obesity as a disease.
                        
                        
                           (C)
                           An assessment of the adequacy of nutrition education for physicians and other health care practitioners in the military health system to evaluate and treat obesity as a disease, including the need for any additional education or guidelines for such physicians and other health care practitioners.
                        
                        
                           (D)
                           A strategy to work toward members of the covered Armed Forces with obesity receiving appropriate treatment.
                        
                     
                     
                        (3)
                        Requirements for educational campaign
                        The educational campaign conducted under paragraph (1)(B) shall include the following:
                        
                           (A)
                           Information to educate members of the covered Armed Forces regarding best practices to prevent, reduce, or mitigate obesity, and available resources to address the root causes of obesity.
                        
                        
                           (B)
                           Information targeted to physicians and other health care practitioners in the military health system to promote diagnosis and treatment of obesity as a disease.
                        
                     
                     
                        (4)
                        Consultation
                        In developing the strategy and educational campaign required by paragraph (1), the Secretary of Defense shall consult with the Secretary of Health and Human Services, acting through the Centers for Medicare &amp;amp; Medicaid Services, and other Health and Human Services agencies, as determined appropriate by the Secretary of Health and Human Services.
                     
                  
                  
                     (b)
                     Inclusion of information regarding unmet weight standards in certain reports
                     Beginning not later than 1 year after the date of the enactment of this Act, the Secretary of Defense shall include information regarding unmet weight standards in any report submitted by the Secretary to Congress regarding disqualifications for enlistment in, disability incurred in, or medical discharges from, the covered Armed Forces.
                  
                  
                     (c)
                     Additional Department of Defense reports
                     
                        (1)
                        Effects of obesity on readiness of covered Armed Forces
                        Not later than 1 year after the date of the enactment of this Act, the Secretary of Defense, in consultation with the Administrator of the Centers for Medicare &amp;amp; Medicaid Services, shall submit to the appropriate congressional committees a report regarding the effects of obesity on the readiness of the covered Armed Forces. Such report shall include legislative recommendations of the Secretary to address such effects.
                     
                     
                        (2)
                        Effectiveness of obesity, food, and nutrition-related programs of Department of Defense
                        Not later than 1 year after the date of the enactment of this Act, and annually thereafter, the Director of the Defense Health Agency shall submit to the appropriate congressional committees a report on the effectiveness of the obesity, food, and nutrition-related programs of the Department of Defense in reducing obesity and improving military readiness.
                     
                  
                  
                     (d)
                     GAO report
                     
                        (1)
                        In general
                        Not later than 1 year after the date of the enactment of this Act, the Comptroller General of the United States shall submit to the appropriate congressional committees a report analyzing the existing obesity, food, and nutrition-related programs of the Department of Defense.
                     
                     
                        (2)
                        Requirements
                        The report required by paragraph (1) shall include the following:
                        
                           (A)
                           An assessment of programs directed to members of the covered Armed Forces.
                        
                        
                           (B)
                           An assessment of programs directed to health care providers in the military health system.
                        
                        
                           (C)
                           An assessment of the effectiveness of such programs in reducing obesity and the impact of obesity on military readiness.
                        
                        
                           (D)
                           Recommendations to coordinate and improve existing programs to reduce obesity and the impact of obesity on military readiness.
                        
                     
                  
                  
                     (e)
                     Definitions
                     In this section:
                     
                        (1)
                        The term appropriate congressional committees means the following:
                        
                           (A)
                           The Committee on Armed Services of the House of Representatives.
                        
                        
                           (B)
                           The Committee on Veterans’ Affairs of the House of Representatives.
                        
                        
                           (C)
                           The Committee on Ways and Means of the House of Representatives.
                        
                        
                           (D)
                           The Committee on Energy and Commerce of the House of Representatives.
                        
                        
                           (E)
                           The Committee on Armed Services of the Senate.
                        
                        
                           (F)
                           The Committee on Veterans’ Affairs of the Senate.
                        
                        
                           (G)
                           The Committee on Finance of the Senate.
                        
                        
                           (H)
                           The Committee on Health, Education, Labor, and Pensions of the Senate.
                        
                     
                     
                        (2)
                        The term covered Armed Force means the Army, Navy, Marine Corps, Air Force, or Space Force.
                     
                  
               
               
                  729C.
                  PODIATRISTS IN THE DEPARTMENT OF DEFENSE
                  
                     (a)
                     Qualification of doctors of podiatry for original appointment as commissioned officers
                     Section 532(b)(1) of title 10, United States Code, is amended by inserting podiatry, after osteopathy,. 
                  
                  
                     (b)
                     Members of Medical Corps
                     Not later than one year after the date of the enactment of this Act, the Secretary of Defense shall ensure that podiatrists are assigned to the Medical Corps of each military department. The Secretary shall notify the Committees on Armed Services of the Senate and House of Representatives in writing upon carrying out this subsection.
                  
               
               
                  729D.
                  REPORT ON MEDICAL INSTRUMENT STERILIZATION
                  
                     (a)
                     Study required
                     
                        (1)
                        In general
                        The Inspector General of the Defense Health Agency shall conduct a study on the adequacy of sterilization of medical instruments at medical facilities of the Defense Health Agency.
                     
                     
                        (2)
                        Elements
                        The study required by paragraph (1) shall include the following elements:
                        
                           (A)
                           A description of the processes or checks used to ensure medical instruments are sterilized prior to use on patients at medical facilities of the Defense Health Agency.
                        
                        
                           (B)
                           A description of the policies and processes used to identify and mitigate the use of insufficiently sterilized medical instruments at such medical facilities and the processes and timelines for informing patients of any such near-miss (if any disclosure is required).
                        
                        
                           (C)
                           An identification of the aggregate number of adverse events or near-misses as a result of insufficiently sterilized medical instruments at such medical facilities during the period beginning on January 1, 2022, and ending on January 1, 2024.
                        
                        
                           (D)
                           A determination of primary factors that result in insufficiently sterilized medical instruments at such medical facilities.
                        
                        
                           (E)
                           A description of the extent to which unsterilized medical instruments have impacted the operation of such medical facilities.
                        
                        
                           (F)
                           An assessment of whether such medical facilities have sufficient—
                           
                              (i)
                              medical instruments;
                           
                           
                              (ii)
                              medical devices to timely clean and sterilize medical instruments; and
                           
                           
                              (iii)
                              staff to sterilize medical instruments.
                           
                        
                        
                           (G)
                           An assessment of whether staff at such medical facilities are properly trained to sterilize medical instruments.
                        
                        
                           (H)
                           A determination of the number of surgeries at such medical facilities that were delayed or rescheduled as a result of unsterilized medical instruments.
                        
                        
                           (I)
                           Recommendations to improve the sterilization of medical instruments at such medical facilities, including an identification and evaluation of existing options, such as mobile sterilization units and coordinating with community medical centers to expand surgical capacity.
                        
                     
                  
                  
                     (b)
                     Report required
                     Not later than one year after the date of the enactment of this Act, the Director of the Defense Health Agency shall submit to Congress a report on the study required by subsection (a), which shall include an action plan to consider and implement the recommendations included in such study.
                  
               
            
            
               C
               Studies, Briefings, Reports, and Other Matters
               
                  731.
                  BLAST PRESSURE SAFETY AND BRAIN HEALTH
                  
                     (a)
                     Expansion of Warfighter Brain Health Initiative
                     
                        (1)
                        Thresholds for blast pressure safety
                        Section 735 of the James M. Inhofe National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2023 (Public Law 117–263; 10 U.S.C. 1071 note) is amended, in subsection (b)(1)—
                        
                           (A)
                           in subparagraph (B)—
                           
                              (i)
                              by striking the period at the end and inserting that—; and
                           
                           
                              (ii)
                              by adding at the end the following new clauses:
                              
                                 
                                    (i)
                                    cover brain injury, lung injury, and impulse noise;
                                 
                                 
                                    (ii)
                                    measure impact over 24-hour, 72-hour to 96-hour, monthly, annual, and lifetime periods;
                                 
                                 
                                    (iii)
                                    ensure that the thresholds are low enough that they are not associated with cognitive deficits after firing;
                                 
                                 
                                    (iv)
                                    include thresholds that account for the firing of multiple types of heavy weaponry and use of grenades in one period of time;
                                 
                                 
                                    (v)
                                    include minimum safe distances and levels of exposure for observers and instructors; and
                                 
                                 
                                    (vi)
                                    include limits for shoulder-fired heavy weapons. 
                                 
                                 ;
                              
                           
                        
                        
                           (B)
                           by inserting, after subparagraph (G), the following new subparagraphs:
                           
                              
                                 (H)
                                 The establishment of policies to encourage members of the armed forces to seek support for brain health when needed, prevent retaliation against such members who seek care, and address other barriers to seeking help for brain health, including due to the impact of blast exposure, blast overpressure, traumatic brain injury, and other health matters. 
                              
                              
                                 (I)
                                 The evaluation of how modifications to existing weapons systems may reduce injuries to individuals within the minimum safe distance of such weapons systems that arise from blast overpressure in the use of such weapons systems.
                              
                              .
                           
                        
                     
                     
                        (2)
                        Definitions
                        Such section is further amended by striking subsection (g) and inserting the following: 
                        
                           
                              (g)
                              Definitions
                              In this section:
                              
                                 (1)
                                 The term neurocognitive assessment means a standardized cognitive and behavioral evaluation using validated and normed testing performed in a formal environment that uses specifically designated tasks to measure cognitive function known to be linked to a particular brain structure or pathway, which may include a measurement of intellectual functioning, attention, new learning or memory, intelligence, processing speed, and executive functioning.
                              
                              
                                 (2)
                                 The term traumatic brain injury means a traumatically induced structural injury or physiological disruption of brain function as a result of an external force that is indicated by new onset or worsening of at least one of the following clinical signs immediately following the event: 
                                 
                                    (A)
                                    Alteration in mental status, including confusion, disorientation, or slowed thinking.
                                 
                                 
                                    (B)
                                    Loss of memory for events immediately before or after the injury.
                                 
                                 
                                    (C)
                                    Any period of loss of or decreased level of consciousness, observed or self-reported.
                                 
                              
                              
                                 (3)
                                 The term Secretary concerned has the meaning given such term in section 101 of title 10, United States Code.
                              
                           
                           .
                        
                     
                     
                        (3)
                        Annual budget justification documents
                        Such section is further amended, in subsection (c), by striking fiscal years 2025 through 2029 and inserting fiscal years 2025 through 2030.
                     
                     
                        (4)
                        Implementation of thresholds
                        Such section is further amended—
                        
                           (A)
                           by striking subsections (e) and (f);
                        
                        
                           (B)
                           by redesignating subsections (c), (d), and (g) as subsections (g), (h), and (i), respectively; and
                        
                        
                           (C)
                           by inserting, after subsection (b), the following new subsections:
                           
                              
                                 (c)
                                 Implementation of thresholds
                                 
                                    (1)
                                    Deadline
                                    
                                       (A)
                                       In general
                                       Not later than two years after the date of the enactment of the National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2025, the Secretary of Defense shall identify and disseminate the thresholds for blast exposure and blast overpressure safety and associated emerging scientific evidence required under subsection (b)(1)(B).
                                    
                                    
                                       (B)
                                       Update
                                       Not less frequently than every five years, the Secretary of Defense shall review and, if the Secretary determines it appropriate, update, the thresholds for blast exposure and blast overpressure safety and associated emerging scientific evidence required under subsection (b)(1)(B).
                                    
                                 
                                 
                                    (2)
                                    Central repository
                                    Not later than two years after the date of the enactment of the National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2025, the Secretary of Defense shall establish a central repository of blast-related characteristics, such as pressure profiles and common blast loads associated with specific systems and the environments in which they are used, that is available to members of the armed forces and includes the information described in subsection (b)(1)(B).
                                 
                                 
                                    (3)
                                    Waivers
                                    
                                       (A)
                                       Protocols
                                       Not later than two years after the date of the enactment of the National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2025, the Secretary of Defense shall establish and implement protocols to require waivers in cases in which members of the armed forces must exceed the safety thresholds described in subsection (b)(1)(B), which shall include a justification for exceeding those safety thresholds.
                                    
                                    
                                       (B)
                                       Tracking system
                                       
                                          (i)
                                          In general
                                          Not later than two years after the date of the enactment of the National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2025, the Secretary of Defense shall establish a Department of Defense-wide tracking system for waivers described in subparagraph (A), which shall include data contributed by each of the Secretaries concerned.
                                       
                                       
                                          (ii)
                                          Report
                                          Not later than December 31 of each of the five years beginning in the year following the establishment of the tracking system required under clause (i), the Secretary of Defense shall submit to the Committees on Armed Services of the Senate and the House of Representatives a report on waivers described in subparagraph (A) that includes—
                                          
                                             (I)
                                             the number of waivers issued, disaggregated by armed force;
                                          
                                          
                                             (II)
                                             the justifications provided for each waiver;
                                          
                                          
                                             (III)
                                             a description of actions taken by the Secretary concerned to track the health effects on members of the armed forces of exceeding safety thresholds described in subsection (b)(1)(B), document those effects in medical records, and provide care to those members; and
                                          
                                          
                                             (IV)
                                             a description of the medical care received by those members in response to exceeding these safety thresholds. 
                                          
                                       
                                    
                                 
                              
                              
                                 (d)
                                 Formal training requirement
                                 
                                    (1)
                                    In general
                                    The Secretary of Defense shall ensure that training described in paragraph (2) is required for members of the armed forces before training, deployment, or entering other environments determined to be high-risk by the Secretary concerned.
                                 
                                 
                                    (2)
                                    Training described
                                    Training described in this paragraph is training on the following:
                                    
                                       (A)
                                       Thresholds for blast exposure and blast overpressure safety and associated emerging scientific evidence required under subsection (b)(1)(B).
                                    
                                    
                                       (B)
                                       Symptoms of exposure to blasts or blast overpressure.
                                    
                                    
                                       (C)
                                       Symptoms of traumatic brain injury. 
                                    
                                 
                              
                              
                                 (e)
                                 Strategies for mitigation and prevention of blast exposure and overpressure risk for high-risk individuals
                                 In carrying out the Initiative, not later than one year after the date of the enactment of the National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2025, the Secretary of Defense shall establish strategies for mitigating and preventing blast exposure and blast overpressure risk for individuals most at risk for exposure to high-risk training or high-risk occupational activities, which shall include—
                                 
                                    (1)
                                    a timeline and process for implementing those strategies;
                                 
                                 
                                    (2)
                                    a determination of the frequency with which those strategies will be updated, at a rate of not less frequently than every five years; and
                                 
                                 
                                    (3)
                                    an assessment of how information regarding those strategies will be disseminated to such individuals, including after those strategies are updated. 
                                 
                              
                              
                                 (f)
                                 Annual report
                                 Not later than March 31, 2025, and not less frequently than annually thereafter through 2030, the Secretary of Defense shall submit to the Committees on Armed Services of the Senate and the House of Representatives a report that includes the following:
                                 
                                    (1)
                                    A description of the activities taken under the Initiative and resources expended under the Initiative during the prior fiscal year.
                                 
                                 
                                    (2)
                                    The number of members of the armed forces impacted by blast overpressure and blast exposure in the prior fiscal year, including—
                                    
                                       (A)
                                       the number of members who reported adverse health effects from blast overpressure or blast exposure;
                                    
                                    
                                       (B)
                                       the number of members exposed to blast overpressure or blast exposure;
                                    
                                    
                                       (C)
                                       the number of members who received treatment for injuries related to blast overpressure or blast exposure, including at facilities of the Department of Defense and at facilities in the private sector;
                                    
                                    
                                       (D)
                                       regarding treatment for blast exposure, blast overpressure, or subconcussive or concussive brain injuries at the National Intrepid Center of Excellence, an Intrepid Spirit Center, or an appropriate military medical treatment facility—
                                       
                                          (i)
                                          the number of members on the waitlist for such treatment;
                                       
                                       
                                          (ii)
                                          the average period of time those members are on that waitlist; and
                                       
                                       
                                          (iii)
                                          the average number of days between when an appointment is requested and the actual appointment date; and
                                       
                                    
                                    
                                       (E)
                                       the type of care that members receive from facilities of the Department of Defense and the type of care that members receive from facilities in the private sector. 
                                    
                                 
                                 
                                    (3)
                                    A summary of the progress made during the prior fiscal year with respect to the objectives of the Initiative under subsection (b).
                                 
                                 
                                    (4)
                                    A description of the steps the Secretary is taking to ensure that activities under the Initiative are being implemented across the Department of Defense and the military departments.
                                 
                              
                              .
                           
                        
                     
                  
                  
                     (b)
                     Establishment of roles for components of the Office of the Secretary of Defense relating to brain injuries from concussive and subconcussive blasts
                     
                        (1)
                        In general
                        The Secretary of Defense shall establish the roles and responsibilities of components of the Office of the Secretary of Defense for the mitigation, identification, and treatment of concussive and subconcussive brain injuries and the monitoring and documentation of blast overpressure exposure as follows:
                        
                           (A)
                           The Under Secretary of Defense for Personnel and Readiness shall be responsible for, not later than one year after the date of the enactment of this Act—
                           
                              (i)
                              establishing a baseline neurocognitive assessment to be conducted during the accession process of members of the Armed Forces before the beginning of training;
                           
                           
                              (ii)
                              establishing neurocognitive assessments to monitor the cognitive function of such members to be conducted—
                              
                                 (I)
                                 at least every three years as part of the periodic health assessment of such members; and
                              
                              
                                 (II)
                                 as part of the post-deployment health assessment of such members;
                              
                           
                           
                              (iii)
                              ensuring all neurocognitive assessments of such members, including those required under clauses (i) and (ii), are maintained in the electronic medical record of such member;
                           
                           
                              (iv)
                              establishing a process for annual review of blast overpressure exposure and traumatic brain injury logs for each member of the Armed Forces during the periodic health assessment of such member for cumulative exposure in order to refer members with recurrent and prolonged exposure to specialty care; and
                           
                           
                              (v)
                              establishing standards for recurrent and prolonged exposure.
                           
                        
                        
                           (B)
                           The Assistant Secretary of Defense for Readiness shall be responsible for, not later than one year after the date of the enactment of this Act, the following:
                           
                              (i)
                              Establishing and maintaining blast overpressure exposure logs and traumatic brain injury logs for every member of the Armed Forces.
                           
                           
                              (ii)
                              Including in those logs at least the following:
                              
                                 (I)
                                 The number of previous exposures to blast overpressure, including the number of exposures per unit of time, date, blast overpressure in pounds per square inch, and number of times the member of the Armed Forces fires, uses, or is exposed to weapons that cause blast overpressure.
                              
                              
                                 (II)
                                 Any residual physical, mental, or emotional effects resulting from such exposure.
                              
                              
                                 (III)
                                 The source of the exposure, activity when the exposure occurred, whether it occurred during training or deployment, and any other relevant context of such exposure.
                              
                              
                                 (IV)
                                 The treatment that the member sought and received in connection with such exposure.
                              
                              
                                 (V)
                                 The number of concussive and subconcussive brain injuries, including traumatic brain injuries, sustained.
                              
                              
                                 (VI)
                                 The severity of concussive and subconcussive brain injuries, including traumatic brain injuries, sustained.
                              
                              
                                 (VII)
                                 Other head trauma, regardless of whether it requires the treatment of a medical provider. 
                              
                           
                        
                        
                           (C)
                           The Inspector General of the Department of Defense shall be responsible for—
                           
                              (i)
                              not later than two years after the date of the enactment of this Act, submitting to Congress a report (in unclassified form, but with a classified annex as necessary) evaluating the establishment and maintenance of the logs required under subparagraph (B), including the cumulative exposure annotated in the blast overpressure exposure logs and traumatic brain injury logs, as well as the compliance of the Department of Defense with Department policies to address the brain health of members of the Armed Forces;
                           
                           
                              (ii)
                              beginning on the date that is three years after the date of the enactment of this Act—
                              
                                 (I)
                                 evaluating the continued fulfillment by the Department of the requirements under subparagraph (B), including the cumulative exposure annotated in the blast overpressure exposure logs and traumatic brain injury logs, as well as the compliance of the Department with Department policies to address the brain health of members of the Armed Forces; and
                              
                              
                                 (II)
                                 not later than December 31 of each year 2025 through 2030, submitting to Congress a report (in unclassified form, but with a classified annex as necessary) containing the results of such evaluation.
                              
                           
                        
                        
                           (D)
                           The Under Secretary of Defense for Acquisition and Sustainment shall be responsible for, not later than one year after the date of enactment of this Act, the following:
                           
                              (i)
                              Ensuring that the minimization of exposure to blast overpressure is considered as a performance parameter when drafting requirements for the Department of Defense for new hand-held, shoulder-launched, or crew-served, weapons systems that produce blast overpressure.
                           
                           
                              (ii)
                              In a case in which minimization of exposure to blast overpressure is not included as a performance parameter under clause (i), the Under Secretary shall document the rationale for its exclusion and retain such documentation and supporting materials for purposes of clause (v).
                           
                           
                              (iii)
                              Establishing a requirement that any entity under contractual agreement with the Department as part of the defense weapons acquisition process for a weapons system described in clause (i) shall provide to the Department blast overpressure measurements and safety data for any weapons system that produce blast overpressure and exceed the department set maximum exposure limit procured from such entity.
                           
                           
                              (iv)
                              Establishing a requirement that any future test plan for a weapons system described in clause (v) incorporates validation and verification testing of blast overpressure measurement and safety data provided by defense contractors in accordance with clause (iii).
                           
                           
                              (v)
                              Retaining and make available to personnel with appropriate access all—
                              
                                 (I)
                                 blast overpressure measurements and safety data for weapons systems of the Department, including how those systems have been tested and in what environments; and
                              
                              
                                 (II)
                                 plans to improve protection for exposure by members of the Armed Forces to in-use weapons systems with unsafe levels of blast overpressure and exposure.
                              
                           
                        
                     
                     
                        (2)
                        Coordination
                        The officials specified in paragraph (1) shall coordinate and align their plans and activities to implement such subsection among themselves and with the Secretaries of the military departments.
                     
                     
                        (3)
                        Briefings and reports
                        
                           (A)
                           Implementation briefing
                           Not later than 180 days after the date of the enactment of this Act, and annually thereafter through 2030, the Secretary of Defense shall provide to the Committees on Armed Services of the Senate and House of Representatives a briefing on the plans, associated timelines, and activities conducted to implement paragraph (1).
                        
                        
                           (B)
                           Report on concussive and subconcussive brain injuries
                           
                              (i)
                              In general
                              Not later than 180 days after the date of the enactment of this Act, and annually thereafter through 2030, the Secretary of Defense shall submit to the Committees on Armed Services of the Senate and House of Representatives a report on—
                              
                                 (I)
                                 concussive and subconcussive brain injuries caused during military operations, including combat operations, among members of the Armed Forces, including information on—
                                 
                                    (aa)
                                    the Armed Force of the member;
                                 
                                 
                                    (bb)
                                    the name of the operation;
                                 
                                 
                                    (cc)
                                    the location within the area of responsibility;
                                 
                                 
                                    (dd)
                                    the number of concussive and subconcussive brain injuries caused;
                                 
                                 
                                    (ee)
                                    the severity of concussive and subconcussive brain injuries caused;
                                 
                                 
                                    (ff)
                                    the treatment received for a concussive or subconcussive brain injury;
                                 
                                 
                                    (gg)
                                    whether a member of the Armed Forces was medically retired from service due to a concussive or subconcussive brain injury;
                                 
                                 
                                    (hh)
                                    whether a member of the Armed Forces died by suicide after sustaining a concussive or subconcussive brain injury; and
                                 
                                 
                                    (ii)
                                    the source of the injury, including the activity conducted when the injury occurred; and
                                 
                              
                              
                                 (II)
                                 concussive and subconcussive brain injuries caused during training events among members of the Armed Forces, including information on—
                                 
                                    (aa)
                                    the Armed Force of the member;
                                 
                                 
                                    (bb)
                                    the type of training;
                                 
                                 
                                    (cc)
                                    the location of the training;
                                 
                                 
                                    (dd)
                                    the number of concussive and subconcussive brain injuries caused;
                                 
                                 
                                    (ee)
                                    the severity of concussive and subconcussive brain injuries caused;
                                 
                                 
                                    (ff)
                                    the treatment received for a concussive or subconcussive brain injury;
                                 
                                 
                                    (gg)
                                    whether a member of the Armed Forces was medically retired from service due to a concussive or subconcussive brain injury;
                                 
                                 
                                    (hh)
                                    whether a member of the Armed Forces died by suicide after sustaining a concussive or subconcussive brain injury; and
                                 
                                 
                                    (ii)
                                    the source of the injury, including the activity conducted when the injury occurred.
                                 
                              
                           
                           
                              (ii)
                              Form
                              Each report submitted under clause (i) shall be submitted in unclassified form, but may include a classified annex.
                           
                        
                        
                           (C)
                           Report on discharges related to concussive and subconcussive brain injuries
                           
                              (i)
                              In general
                              Not later than 180 days after the date of the enactment of this Act, and annually thereafter through 2030, the officials specified in paragraph and the Secretary of Defense shall submit to the Committees on Armed Services of the Senate and House of Representatives a report on members of the Armed Forces who were discharged administratively or punitively and had a concussive or subconcussive brain injury, including a traumatic brain injury, including information on—
                              
                                 (I)
                                 whether the injury or injuries occurred during combat operations or training and the associated combat operations or training incident;
                              
                              
                                 (II)
                                 the severity of the injury or injuries;
                              
                              
                                 (III)
                                 if any such injury was combat related, the name of the operation;
                              
                              
                                 (IV)
                                 the treatment sought and received for the injury or injuries;
                              
                              
                                 (V)
                                 the number of discharge upgrade requests in connection with such an injury or injuries that have been made; and
                              
                              
                                 (VI)
                                 the number of such discharge upgrade requests that have been approved.
                              
                           
                           
                              (ii)
                              Form
                              Each report submitted under subparagraph (A) shall be submitted in unclassified form, but may include a classified annex. 
                           
                        
                        
                           (D)
                           Report on medical providers trained in concussive and subconcussive brain injuries
                           Not later than 180 days after the date of the enactment of this Act, and annually thereafter, the Secretary of Defense shall submit to the Committees on Armed Services of the Senate and House of Representatives a report on medical providers within the Defense Health Agency who are trained in traumatic brain injury or concussive and subconcussive brain injuries as a sub-specialty of neurology, including information on—
                           
                              (i)
                              the number of such providers, disaggregated by location;
                           
                           
                              (ii)
                              the billets of such personnel;
                           
                           
                              (iii)
                              the number of medical personnel currently participating in training or a fellowship relating to traumatic brain injury or concussive and subconcussive brain injuries; and
                           
                           
                              (iv)
                              the strategy of the Department of Defense to increase the number of medical providers trained in traumatic brain injury or concussive and subconcussive brain injuries as a sub-specialty of neurology.
                           
                        
                     
                  
                  
                     (c)
                     Mandatory training on health effects of certain brain trauma
                     Not less frequently than once every two years, the Secretary of Defense shall provide to each medical provider and training manager of the Department of Defense mandatory training with respect to the potential health effects of blast overpressure, blast exposure, and traumatic brain injury. 
                  
                  
                     (d)
                     Implementation of Inspector General recommendations to manage traumatic brain injury care
                     
                        (1)
                        Implementation
                        Not later than December 31, 2025, the Secretary of Defense shall implement the recommendations contained in the report of the Inspector General of the Department of Defense titled, Evaluation of the DoD’s Management of Traumatic Brain Injury (DODIG-2023-059).
                     
                     
                        (2)
                        Briefing
                        Not later than April 1, 2025, the Secretary of Defense shall provide to the Committee on Armed Services of the Senate and the Committee on Armed Services of the House of Representatives a briefing on the progress of the Secretary in carrying out the implementation required under paragraph (1). 
                     
                  
                  
                     (e)
                     GAO review of blast-related brain injury research and other efforts of the Department of Defense
                     
                        (1)
                        In general
                        The Comptroller General of the United States shall conduct a review of the research and other efforts of the Department of Defense on traumatic brain injury, including injuries related to blast overpressure or blast exposure.
                     
                     
                        (2)
                        Matters To be included
                        The review required by paragraph (1) shall include the following:
                        
                           (A)
                           A description of the research conducted by the Department of Defense on traumatic brain injury, the entities involved in that research, and efforts to coordinate that research internally and externally.
                        
                        
                           (B)
                           A description of any improvements identified by that research related to the prevention, diagnosis, and treatment of blast-related brain injuries and an assessment of the implementation of those improvements.
                        
                        
                           (C)
                           An evaluation of the efforts of the Department to protect members of the Armed Forces from retaliation for seeking care for the prevention, diagnosis, or treatment of traumatic brain injury, blast overpressure, or blast exposure, including any gaps in or barriers to those efforts.
                        
                        
                           (D)
                           An evaluation of the list maintained by the Department of the military occupational specialties most at-risk for blast overpressure and blast exposure and whether additional at-risk occupational specialties should be included.
                        
                        
                           (E)
                           Any other finding the Comptroller General considers relevant.
                        
                     
                     
                        (3)
                        Briefing and report
                        Not later than 180 days after the date of the enactment of this Act, the Comptroller General shall brief the Committees on Armed Services of the Senate and the House of Representatives, and the Committee on Transportation and Infrastructure of the House of Representatives, on the review required by paragraph (1), with a report to follow on a mutually agreed upon date. 
                     
                  
                  
                     (f)
                     Definitions
                     In this section, the terms neurocognitive assessment and traumatic brain injury have the meanings given such terms in section 735 of the James M. Inhofe National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2023 (Public Law 117–263; 10 U.S.C. 1071 note), as amended by this section.
                  
               
               
                  732.
                  STUDY ON TESTOSTERONE LEVELS OF MEMBERS OF ARMY SPECIAL OPERATIONS FORCES
                  
                     (a)
                     Study
                     Not later than 60 days after the date of the enactment of this Act, the Under Secretary of Defense for Personnel and Readiness, in consultation with the Commander of the United States Special Operations Command, shall conduct a five-year study to determine whether the conditions that covered members experience while serving in a covered force affect the testosterone levels of the covered members. The study shall include the following elements:
                     
                        (1)
                        Data on the testosterone levels of each covered member included in the study throughout the period covered by the study, including while the covered member is—
                        
                           (A)
                           participating in any training of a covered force;
                        
                        
                           (B)
                           deployed by a covered force; or
                        
                        
                           (C)
                           otherwise working for a covered force.
                        
                     
                     
                        (2)
                        With respect to each covered member who joins a covered force during the period covered by the study and is included in the study, data on the testosterone levels of the covered member upon joining the covered force, accounting for, to the extent practicable, any effect on such testosterone levels attributable to an experience of the covered member while in the Armed Forces, prior to joining the covered force.
                     
                     
                        (3)
                        With respect to each covered member who has low testosterone and is included in the study, data on the testosterone levels of the covered member before, during, and after the administration of any remedy (medical or non-medical) recommended to the covered member by a covered force for the treatment of low testosterone.
                     
                     
                        (4)
                        Data regarding the relationship, if any, between the time of day that the testosterone level of a covered member is measured and the accuracy of the resulting measurement.
                     
                     
                        (5)
                        Data regarding the relationship, if any, between the testosterone levels of a covered member and—
                        
                           (A)
                           the job performance of the covered member; or
                        
                        
                           (B)
                           any marker of long-term health of the covered member.
                        
                     
                     
                        (6)
                        Any other information determined appropriate by the Under Secretary.
                     
                  
                  
                     (b)
                     Reports
                     
                        (1)
                        Interim report
                        Not later than one year after the date on which the study under subsection (a) begins, the Under Secretary shall submit to the Committees on Armed Services of the Senate and the House of Representatives a report describing—
                        
                           (A)
                           each process implemented by Under Secretary during the period covered by the report to carry out the study; and
                        
                        
                           (B)
                           any results of the study collected during such period. 
                        
                     
                     
                        (2)
                        Final report
                        Not later than one year after the date of the termination of the study under subsection (a), the Under Secretary shall submit to the Committees on Armed Services of the Senate and the House of Representatives a report on the results of the study. Such report shall include the following elements:
                        
                           (A)
                           A comparison between—
                           
                              (i)
                              the data described in subsection (a)(2); and
                           
                           
                              (ii)
                              data regarding the testosterone levels of male civilians of a comparable age.
                           
                        
                        
                           (B)
                           The analysis of the Under Secretary as to whether the testosterone levels of covered members are affected by the conditions such covered members experience—
                           
                              (i)
                              during a training of a covered force;
                           
                           
                              (ii)
                              while deployed by a covered force; or
                           
                           
                              (iii)
                              while otherwise working for a covered force.
                           
                        
                        
                           (C)
                           The assessment of the Under Secretary as to whether the testosterone levels of covered members affect—
                           
                              (i)
                              the readiness of any covered force; or
                           
                           
                              (ii)
                              any marker of long-term health of the covered members.
                           
                        
                        
                           (D)
                           A list of each medical procedure a covered force uses, as of the date of the report, to monitor the testosterone levels of covered members.
                        
                        
                           (E)
                           A list of each preventative measure (medical or non-medical) a covered force uses, as of the date of the report, to reduce the likelihood of low testosterone in a covered member.
                        
                        
                           (F)
                           A list of each remedy (medical or non-medical) a covered force uses, as of the date of the report, to—
                           
                              (i)
                              treat low testosterone in a covered member; or 
                           
                           
                              (ii)
                              mitigate any symptom of low testosterone in a covered member.
                           
                        
                        
                           (G)
                           Recommendations of the Under Secretary regarding—
                           
                              (i)
                              which medical procedures are best suited for use by a covered force in monitoring the testosterone levels of each covered member;
                           
                           
                              (ii)
                              whether, in monitoring the testosterone levels of each covered member, a covered force should—
                              
                                 (I)
                                 account for, to the extent practicable, any effect on the testosterone levels attributable to an experience of the covered member while in the Armed Forces, prior to joining the covered force; or
                              
                              
                                 (II)
                                 measure the testosterone levels during a specific time of day to increase the accuracy of the measurements;
                              
                           
                           
                              (iii)
                              which preventative measures (medical or non-medical) are best suited for use by a covered force as a means to reduce the likelihood of low testosterone in a covered member; and
                           
                           
                              (iv)
                              which remedies (medical or non-medical) are best suited for use by a covered force in—
                              
                                 (I)
                                 the treatment of low testosterone in a covered member; or
                              
                              
                                 (II)
                                 the mitigation of any symptom of low testosterone in a covered member.
                              
                           
                        
                        
                           (H)
                           A determination of the Under Secretary as to whether a pilot program or clinical trail with respect to the use of testosterone replacement therapy for covered members who have low testosterone would be advisable considering any prevalence of low testosterone observed in the study and any risks associated with testosterone replacement therapy.
                        
                        
                           (I)
                           Any other information the Under Secretary determines appropriate. 
                        
                     
                     
                        (3)
                        Form
                        The reports under this subsection shall be submitted in an unclassified form, but may include a classified annex. 
                     
                  
                  
                     (c)
                     Definitions
                     In this section:
                     
                        (1)
                        The term covered force means a special operations force that is under the jurisdiction of the Secretary of the Army.
                     
                     
                        (2)
                        The term covered member means a member of a covered force.
                     
                     
                        (3)
                        The term low testosterone means a condition in which the testosterone levels of an individual—
                        
                           (A)
                           are lower than is average for a healthy individual of comparable age and gender; and
                        
                        
                           (B)
                           negatively affect the well-being, including the mental or physical health, of the individual.
                        
                     
                     
                        (4)
                        The term special operations force means a force identified under section 167(j) of title 10, United States Code.
                     
                  
               
               
                  733.
                  REPORT ON USE OF AGENT ORANGE ON GUAM
                  Not later than one year after the date of the enactment of this Act, the Assistant Secretary of Defense for Health Affairs shall submit to the congressional defense committees, and make publicly available, a report that includes—
                  
                     (1)
                     the exact dates on which Agent Orange was used on Guam;
                  
                  
                     (2)
                     an identification of any known or suspected site that was used to dump Agent Orange;
                  
                  
                     (3)
                     an identification of any specific area where Agent Orange was used in Guam; and
                  
                  
                     (4)
                     a list of diseases and disabilities that can result from exposure to Agent Orange.
                  
               
               
                  734.
                  REQUIREMENTS STUDY AND STRATEGY FOR COMBAT MEDICAL SUPPORT DURING CRISIS OR CONFLICT IN THE INDO-PACIFIC
                  
                     (a)
                     In general
                     The Under Secretary of Defense for Personnel and Readiness shall conduct a study to determine the requirements for combat medical support during a crisis or conflict in the Indo-Pacific and in support of the objectives of the national defense strategy. Such study shall include the following:
                     
                        (1)
                        Identification of anticipated medical requirements necessary to support a most likely conflict scenario in the Indo-Pacific, including—
                        
                           (A)
                           requirements for short-term, mid-term, and long-term contingency and steady-state medical operations against adversaries;
                        
                        
                           (B)
                           requirements for medical equipment, facilities, and personnel, to include anticipated medical specialties needed;
                        
                        
                           (C)
                           timelines associated with activating or mobilizing total force medical personnel and equipment; and
                        
                        
                           (D)
                           the role of the Integrated CONUS Medical Operations Plan.
                        
                     
                     
                        (2)
                        An assessment of the ideal posture of medical personnel and equipment, including—
                        
                           (A)
                           locations ideal for pre-positioning medical personnel, equipment, and assets, to include hospital ships and expeditionary medical facilities;
                        
                        
                           (B)
                           the role of fixed military medical treatment facilities and their personnel in Hawaii and elsewhere in the Indo-Pacific;
                        
                        
                           (C)
                           infrastructure requirements or considerations in Hawaii, Guam, and other U.S. installations in the Indo-Pacific; and
                        
                        
                           (D)
                           current or potential partner nation support capabilities or agreements.
                        
                     
                     
                        (3)
                        An assessment of the rotary, tilt, and fixed wing aircraft and key medical evacuation enabling capabilities that—
                        
                           (A)
                           are needed to meet the requirements identified under paragraph (1);
                        
                        
                           (B)
                           have been accounted for in the budget as of the date of the study; or
                        
                        
                           (C)
                           that are being considered or in development and the projected timeline to meet full operational capability.
                        
                     
                     
                        (4)
                        Identification of any medical care or support capability gaps, including an assessment of—
                        
                           (A)
                           whether and to what extent such gaps may affect the ability of the joint force to provide medical support and care during a conflict; and
                        
                        
                           (B)
                           any capability gaps attributable to unfunded requirements.
                        
                     
                     
                        (5)
                        Identification and assessment of key current, emerging, and future technologies with potential applications to the combat medical support and medical evacuation mission.
                     
                  
                  
                     (b)
                     Strategy required
                     
                        (1)
                        In general
                        Based on the results of the study conducted under subsection (a), the Secretary of Defense shall develop a strategy to meet the requirements identified under such study.
                     
                     
                        (2)
                        Elements
                        The strategy under paragraph (1) shall include—
                        
                           (A)
                           a prioritized list of capabilities, equipment and infrastructure needed to meet the requirements identified under subsection (a);
                        
                        
                           (B)
                           the estimated costs of such capabilities, equipment, and infrastructure; and
                        
                        
                           (C)
                           the roles of each service component in contributing to combat medical support from point of injury to recovery.
                        
                     
                     
                        (3)
                        Submission to congress
                        
                           (A)
                           In general
                           Not later than one year after the enactment of this Act, the Office of Secretary of Defense shall submit to the congressional defense committees a report on the strategy developed under paragraph (1).
                        
                        
                           (B)
                           Form
                           The report shall be submitted in unclassified form, by may include a classified annex.
                        
                     
                  
               
               
                  735.
                  REPORT ON ACCESS OF TRICARE BENEFICIARIES TO NETWORK RETAIL PHARMACIES
                  
                     (a)
                     Report required
                     Not later than 180 days after the date of the enactment of this Act, the Secretary of Defense shall submit to Congress a report evaluating beneficiary access to TRICARE network pharmacies under the TPharm5 contract and changes in beneficiary access versus the TPharm4 contract.
                  
                  
                     (b)
                     Elements
                     The report required under subsection (a) shall include the following:
                     
                        (1)
                        An analysis of pharmacy access in rural areas under such contracts, including:
                        
                           (A)
                           The number of TRICARE beneficiaries and number of TRICARE network retail pharmacies located in rural areas.
                        
                        
                           (B)
                           The average drive time to the nearest TRICARE network retail pharmacy for a beneficiary residing in rural areas.
                        
                        
                           (C)
                           The number of beneficiaries who live farther than a 15-minute drive to a TRICARE retail network pharmacy.
                        
                        
                           (D)
                           An assessment of medication compliance rates for beneficiaries residing in rural areas for the three years prior to October 24, 2022 compared to the period-to-date following October 24, 2022.
                        
                     
                     
                        (2)
                        An analysis of TRICARE retail pharmacy network capabilities under such contracts, including the number of network pharmacies offering—
                        
                           (A)
                           long-term care services;
                        
                        
                           (B)
                           prescription drug compounding services; and
                        
                        
                           (C)
                           home infusion therapy services.
                        
                     
                     
                        (3)
                        An analysis of affected beneficiaries and their use of the TRICARE Pharmacy program under TPharm4 and TPharm5, including:
                        
                           (A)
                           Data on affected beneficiaries’ use of MTF pharmacies, TRICARE mail order program, Accredo, departed retail pharmacies, network retail pharmacies.
                        
                        
                           (B)
                           An assessment of medication compliance rates for affected beneficiaries for the three years prior to October 24, 2022 compared to the period-to-date following October 24, 2022.
                        
                        
                           (C)
                           Data on affected beneficiaries’ use of pharmacies that offer long-term care services, compound pharmacies, home infusion therapy.
                        
                        
                           (D)
                           The number of affected beneficiaries and number of total TRICARE beneficiaries by age group: Under age 18, 18-24, 25-44, 45-64, 65-79, 80 and older.
                        
                     
                     
                        (4)
                        An analysis on the effect on long-term care residents under TPharm4 and TPharm5, including:
                        
                           (A)
                           The number of beneficiaries who filled at least one prescription at a pharmacy that provides long-term care services.
                        
                        
                           (B)
                           The number of beneficiaries who filled prescriptions at a single long-term care pharmacy only with no prescriptions filled via mail order, MTF pharmacy, or another retail pharmacy.
                        
                     
                     
                        (5)
                        An analysis of non-network pharmacy use by TRICARE beneficiaries under TPharm4 and TPharm5, disaggregated by rural beneficiaries, non-rural beneficiaries, affected beneficiaries, rural affected beneficiaries, and non-rural affected beneficiaries:
                        
                           (A)
                           The number of beneficiaries who used a non-network pharmacy.
                        
                        
                           (B)
                           The number of non-network claims submitted.
                        
                        
                           (C)
                           For all non-network claims submitted—
                           
                              (i)
                              the average TRICARE allowed amount per prescription;
                           
                           
                              (ii)
                              the average TRICARE amount paid per prescription; and
                           
                           
                              (iii)
                              the verage beneficiary out-of-pocket cost per prescription.
                           
                        
                     
                  
                  
                     (c)
                     Definitions
                     In this section:
                     
                        (1)
                        The term affected beneficiary means a beneficiary who filled at least one prescription in the year preceding October 24, 2022 at a departed pharmacy.
                     
                     
                        (2)
                        The term beneficiary has the meaning given that term in section 1074g(i) of title 10, United States Code.
                     
                     
                        (3)
                        The term departed retail pharmacy means a retail pharmacy that participated in the TRICARE network in September, 2022 but left the network with the transition to the TPharm5 contract.
                     
                     
                        (4)
                        The term network pharmacy means a retail pharmacy described in section 1074g(a)(2)(E)(ii) of title 10, United States Code.
                     
                     
                        (5)
                        The term rural—
                        
                           (A)
                           with regards to a location, has the meaning given such term in section 343(a) of the Consolidated Farm and Rural Development Act (7 U.S.C. 1991(a)); and
                        
                        
                           (B)
                           with regards to a beneficiary, has the meaning used by the Secretary of Defense in the administration of section 1074g of title 10, United States Code.
                        
                     
                     
                        (6)
                        The term TPharm4 means the period covered by the 4th Generation pharmacy contract under TRICARE prior to October 24, 2022 when the retail network reduction went into effect.
                     
                     
                        (7)
                        The term TPharm5 means the period covered by 5th Generation pharmacy contract under TRICARE to date.
                     
                  
               
               
                  736.
                  REPORT ON COPAYMENTS FOR MENTAL OR BEHAVIORAL HEALTH CARE UNDER TRICARE
                  Not later than 90 days after the date of the enactment of this Act, the Secretary of Defense shall submit to the Committees on Armed Services of the Senate and House Representatives a report on cost sharing paid by beneficiaries under the TRICARE program for outpatient visits for mental health or behavioral health care. Such report shall include the following:
                  
                     (1)
                     Efforts of the Secretary of Defense to ensure that such cost sharing is affordable for such beneficiaries.
                  
                  
                     (2)
                     A summary of such cost sharing during fiscal years 2019 through 2024, including—
                     
                        (A)
                        the total amount paid by beneficiaries;
                     
                     
                        (B)
                        the number of visits per year; and
                     
                     
                        (C)
                        the average amount paid per such visit.
                     
                  
                  
                     (3)
                     Recommendations of the Secretary regarding how to limit minimize the burden of such cost sharing to such beneficiaries.
                  
               
               
                  737.
                  PILOT PROGRAM TO TEST STANDALONE TECHNOLOGY TO IMPROVE EFFICIENCIES IN SUPPLY-CHAIN MANAGEMENT, MEDICAL READINESS, AND MEDICAL PROCESSES
                  
                     (a)
                     Establishment
                     Not later than 90 days after the date of enactment of the Act, the Secretary of Defense, acting through the Defense Health Agency, shall carry out a pilot program to test and evaluate existing standalone technology for the purposes of assessing whether such standalone technology—
                     
                        (1)
                        improves efficiencies in medical supply-chain management and in military medical readiness;
                     
                     
                        (2)
                        streamlines medical processes;
                     
                     
                        (3)
                        improves recordation accuracy;
                     
                     
                        (4)
                        reduces rates of needlestick injury; and
                     
                     
                        (5)
                        enhances retention rates of military health care providers.
                     
                  
                  
                     (b)
                     Locations
                     The pilot shall be conducted at medical facilities of the Department of Defense that the Secretary determines would enable a sufficiently thorough sample size to carry out the assessment under subsection (a).
                  
                  
                     (c)
                     Termination
                     The pilot program shall terminate 36 months after the date of the enactment of this Act.
                  
                  
                     (d)
                     Report
                     Not later than 90 days after the termination of the pilot program, the Secretary shall submit to the congressional defense committees a report containing the assessment of the Secretary under subsection (a).
                  
                  
                     (e)
                     Standalone technology defined
                     In this section, the term standalone technology means a device that is capable of accomplishing the functions specified in subsection (a).
                  
               
               
                  738.
                  PILOT PROGRAM ON PRE-PROGRAMMING OF SUICIDE PREVENTION RESOURCES INTO SMART DEVICES ISSUED TO MEMBERS OF THE ARMED FORCES
                  
                     (a)
                     In general
                     Not later than 120 days after the date of the enactment of this Act, the Secretary of Defense shall commence the conduct of a pilot program under which the Secretary—
                     
                        (1)
                        pre-downloads the Virtual Hope Box application of the Defense Health Agency, or such successor application, on the covered devices of members of the Armed Forces; 
                     
                     
                        (2)
                        pre-programs the National Suicide Hotline number and Veterans Crisis Line number into the contacts for such covered devices; and
                     
                     
                        (3)
                        provides training, as part of the training on suicide awareness and prevention conducted throughout the Department of Defense, on the preventative resources described in paragraphs (1) and (2).
                     
                  
                  
                     (b)
                     Duration
                     The Secretary of Defense shall carry out the pilot program under this section for a two-year period. 
                  
                  
                     (c)
                     Scope
                     The Secretary of Defense shall determine the appropriate scope of individuals participating in the pilot program under this section to best represent each Armed Force and to ensure a relevant sample size. 
                  
                  
                     (d)
                     Identification of other resources
                     In carrying out the pilot program under this section, the Secretary of Defense shall coordinate with the Director of the Defense Health Agency and the Secretary of Veterans Affairs to identify other useful technology-related resources for use in the pilot program.
                  
                  
                     (e)
                     Report
                     Not later than 30 days after the date on which the pilot program under this section terminates, the Secretary of Defense shall submit to the Committees on Armed Services of the House of Representatives and the Senate a report on the pilot program, including recommendations by the Secretary relating to expanding the scope of future pilot programs to include members of the Armed Forces who do not possess covered devices.
                  
                  
                     (f)
                     Definitions
                     In this section:
                     
                        (1)
                        The term covered device means a smart device (including a mobile phone) that is issued to an individual by the Secretary of Defense or the Secretary of an Armed Force.
                     
                     
                        (2)
                        The term Veterans Crisis Line means the toll-free hotline for veterans established under section 1720F(h) of title 38, United States Code.
                     
                  
               
               
                  739.
                  REPORT ON RATE OF MATERNAL MORTALITY AMONG MEMBERS OF THE ARMED FORCES
                  Not later than 180 days after the date of the enactment of this Act, the Secretary of Defense, and with respect to members of the Coast Guard, the Secretary of the Department in which the Coast Guard is operating in any case in which such Department is not operating as a service in the Navy, shall submit to Congress a report on the rate of maternal mortality among members of the Armed Forces and the dependents of such members. 
               
               
                  740.
                  ANNUAL REVIEW AND UPDATE OF ONLINE INFORMATION RELATING TO SUICIDE PREVENTION
                  Not later than June 1, 2026, each Secretary of a military department shall—
                  
                     (1)
                     review any information relating to suicide prevention or behavioral health, including any contact information for related resources, that is published on an Internet website of the military department at the installation level;
                  
                  
                     (2)
                     make updates to such information as may be necessary; and
                  
                  
                     (3)
                     submit to the congressional defense committees a certification that such information is up-to-date.
                  
               
               
                  741.
                  REPORT ON EMERGENCY AND TRAUMA CARE FOR CIVILIANS AT MILITARY TREATMENT FACILITIES
                  Not later than 180 days after the date of enactment of this section, the Director of the Defense Health Agency, in collaboration with military treatment facilities engaged in emergency and trauma care to civilian patients, shall submit to the congressional defense committees a report that includes the following:
                  
                     (1)
                     A summary of any challenges that military treatment facilities have encountered in providing emergency and trauma care to civilian patients, including challenges related to the transportation of such patients to and from such facilities, and steps the Director has taken to overcome such challenges.
                  
                  
                     (2)
                     An assessment of the effectiveness of the coordination of military treatment facilities with local emergency medical services and any barrier faced by such facilities and services related to providing timely emergency medical care to civilians, including any barrier caused by installation access.
                  
                  
                     (3)
                     A summary of efforts the Director has taken to address the issues identified in the report of the Comptroller General of the United States titled “Defense Health Care: Actions Needed to Improve Billing and Collection of Debt for Civilian Emergency Care”, published on July 7, 2022 (GAO–22–104770), including such issues related to inconsistent use of financial relief for civilian emergency patients and the lack of guidance to ensure accurate accounting of billing and collections efforts.
                  
                  
                     (4)
                     Any recommendations to improve civilian emergency care at Department of Defense medical treatment facilities, including any recommendations for additional legislation.
                  
               
               
                  742.
                  STUDY ON BLOOD WORK OF MEMBERS OF THE ARMED FORCES REGARDING COVID-19
                  
                     (a)
                     Study required
                     Not later than September 30, 2025, the Secretary of Defense shall conduct a study to test the blood of members of the Armed Forces relating to relating to COVID-19.
                  
                  
                     (b)
                     Elements
                     The study under this section shall include the following elements:
                     
                        (1)
                        Testing to detect nucleocapsid protein immunoglobin-G antibodies relating to COVID-19.
                     
                     
                        (2)
                        Testing to detect T-cell immune response to COVID-19.
                     
                     
                        (3)
                        An assessment of the efficacy of each vaccine for COVID-19 in comparison to—
                        
                           (A)
                           each other such vaccine; and
                        
                        
                           (B)
                           infection-acquired immunity.
                        
                     
                     
                        (4)
                        An accounting of adverse events (including hyperimmune response), disaggregated by—
                        
                           (A)
                           each vaccine described in paragraph (3); and
                        
                        
                           (B)
                           history of infection.
                        
                     
                  
                  
                     (c)
                     Report
                     Not later than 180 days after completing the study, the Secretary shall submit a report on such study to the Committees on Armed Services of the Senate and House of Representatives.
                  
               
               
                  743.
                  REPORT ON APPROVING CERTAIN TRANSITIONAL AND RESIDENTIAL BRAIN INJURY TREATMENT PROGRAMS
                  
                     (a)
                     Study
                     The Secretary of Defense shall conduct a study to analyze the feasibility of recognizing transitional and residential brain injury treatment programs that are approved by non-governmental accreditation bodies solely to provide services to members of covered Armed Forces who sustained a brain injury in the course of performing active duty.
                  
                  
                     (b)
                     Report
                     Not later than 1 year after the date of the enactment of this Act, the Secretary of Defense shall submit to Congress a report setting forth the findings and conclusions of the study conducted pursuant to subsection (a).
                  
                  
                     (c)
                     Covered armed forces defined
                     In this section, the term covered Armed Forces means the Army, Navy, Marine Corps, Air Force, and Space Force.
                  
               
               
                  744.
                  STUDY AND REPORT ON MENTAL HEALTH CARE FOR PILOTS AND AVIATORS
                  
                     (a)
                     Study
                     The Secretary of Defense and the Secretary of Health and Human Services shall collaborate on a study on the barriers to mental health care for military pilots, aviators, and military air traffic controllers. The study shall include the development of a set of recommendations to ensure that pilots and aviators who need mental health care have—
                     
                        (1)
                        no more barriers to care;
                     
                     
                        (2)
                        no more consequences for seeking care; and
                     
                     
                        (3)
                        no less scientifically-robust bases for being treated and re-cleared for duty than pilots and aviators who need physical health care.
                     
                  
                  
                     (b)
                     Report
                     Not later than one year after the date of the enactment of this Act, the Secretary of Defense and the Secretary of Health and Human Services shall jointly submit to Congress a report that contains the results of the study required under subsection (a).
                  
               
               
                  745.
                  STUDY ON TOOLS TO DIAGNOSE TRAUMATIC BRAIN INJURY IN MEMBERS OF THE ARMED FORCES
                  
                     (a)
                     Study required; elements
                     The Secretary of Defense shall conduct a study of commercially available diagnostic tools that screen for traumatic brain injury (in this section referred to as TBI) and may be used by forward-deployed units and in combat zones. Such study shall include the following elements:
                     
                        (1)
                        Whether such tools can distinguish mild traumatic brain injury from moderate or severe TBI. 
                     
                     
                        (2)
                        How such tools could be used with other approved diagnostics (including neuroimaging biomarkers used in computed tomography or magnetic resonance imaging, blood-based biomarkers, electrophysiological biomarkers, oculomotor tracking systems, and integrated measures of physiological deficits), to enhance the health, survival, and long-term conditions of members and former members of the Armed Forces.
                     
                     
                        (3)
                        How such tools would improve military readiness and address concerns regarding the growing medical burden of TBI.
                     
                  
                  
                     (b)
                     Report
                     Not later than 90 days after the date of the enactment of this Act, the Secretary of Defense shall submit to the congressional defense committees a report containing the following:
                     
                        (1)
                        The results of the study.
                     
                     
                        (2)
                        Determinations of the Secretary regarding whether to procure and use such tools in addition to other tools already used in the Department of Defense to screen for TBI.
                     
                     
                        (3)
                        Recommendations of the Secretary regarding legislation that may by necessary to action regarding such tools.
                     
                  
               
               
                  746.
                  STUDY ON USE OF ROUTINE NEUROIMAGING MODALITIES IN DIAGNOSIS, TREATMENT, AND PREVENTION OF BRAIN INJURY DUE TO BLAST PRESSURE EXPOSURE DURING COMBAT AND TRAINING
                  
                     (a)
                     In general
                     The Secretary of Defense shall conduct a study on the feasibility and effectiveness of the use of routine neuroimaging modalities in the diagnosis, treatment, and prevention of brain injury among members of the Armed Forces due to one or more blast pressure exposures during combat and training.
                  
                  
                     (b)
                     Reports
                     
                        (1)
                        Interim report
                        Not later than one year after the date of the enactment of this Act, the Secretary shall submit to the Committees on Armed Services of the Senate and the House of Representatives an interim report on the methods and action plan for the study under subsection (a).
                     
                     
                        (2)
                        Final report
                        Not later than two years after the date on which the Secretary begins the study under subsection (a), the Secretary shall submit to the Committees on Armed Services of the Senate and the House of Representatives a report on the results of such study. 
                     
                  
               
               
                  747.
                  CLARIFICATION OF RESPONSIBILITIES REGARDING THE INTEGRATED DISABILITY EVALUATION SYSTEM
                  
                     (a)
                     Clarification
                     Subsection (h) of section 1073c of title 10, United States Code, is amended—
                     
                        (1)
                        in the heading, by striking 
                              Secretaries Concerned and Medical Evaluation Boards
                            and inserting 
                              authority over members
                           ;
                     
                     
                        (2)
                        by inserting 
                              (1)
                            before Nothing; and
                     
                     
                        (3)
                        by adding at the end the following new paragraphs:
                        
                           
                              (2)
                              Notwithstanding the responsibilities and authorities of the Defense Health Agency with respect to the administration of military medical treatment facilities as set forth in this section (including medical evaluations of members of the armed forces under the jurisdiction of the military department concerned), the Secretary of each military department shall maintain personnel authority over, and responsibility for, any member of the armed forces under the jurisdiction of the military department concerned while the member is being considered by a medical evaluation board or is otherwise subject to the integrated disability evaluation system. Such responsibility shall include the following: 
                              
                                 (A)
                                 Responsibility for administering the morale and welfare of the member.
                              
                              
                                 (B)
                                 Responsibility for determinations of fitness for duty of the member under chapter 61 of this title.
                              
                           
                           
                              (3)
                              Notwithstanding the responsibilities and authorities of the Defense Health Agency with respect to the administration of the integrated disability evaluation system, a commander shall, at all times, maintain absolute responsibility for, and authority over, a member of the armed forces referred to the integrated disability evaluation system. Such responsibility and authority include the following:
                              
                                 (A)
                                 The authority to pause any process of the integrated disability evaluation system regarding the member.
                              
                              
                                 (B)
                                 The authority to withdraw the member from the integrated disability evaluation system if the commander determines that any policy, procedure, regulation, or other guidance has not been followed in the member’s case.
                              
                           
                           
                              (4)
                              Pursuant to regulations prescribed by the Secretary of Defense, a member referred to the integrated disability evaluation system may file an appeal of such referral with the Secretary of the military department concerned. Such an appeal—
                              
                                 (A)
                                 shall be in addition to any appeals process established as part of the integrated disability evaluation system;
                              
                              
                                 (B)
                                 shall include a hearing before an officer who may convene a general court-martial and who is in the chain of command of the member; and
                              
                              
                                 (C)
                                 shall be adjudicated not later than 90 days after such filing.
                              
                           
                           .
                        
                     
                  
                  
                     (b)
                     Regulations
                     The Secretary of Defense shall prescribe regulations to carry out paragraphs (2) through (4) of such subsection, as added by this section, not later than 90 days after the date of the enactment of this Act.
                  
                  
                     (c)
                     Briefing
                     Not later than February 1, 2025, the Secretary of Defense shall provide to the Committees on Armed Services of the Senate and House of Representatives a briefing on the implementation of such paragraphs.
                  
               
               
                  748.
                  STUDY ON ACCESSIBILITY OF MENTAL HEALTH CARE PROVIDERS AND SERVICES FOR ACTIVE DUTY MEMBERS OF THE ARMED FORCES
                  
                     (a)
                     Study
                     The Secretary of Defense shall conduct a study determine whether and to what extent members of the Armed Forces serving on active duty have adequate access to mental health care providers and services.
                  
                  
                     (b)
                     Report
                     Not later than 180 days after the date of the enactment of this Act, the Secretary of Defense shall submit to the congressional defense committees a report on the results of the study conducted under subsection (a).
                  
               
               
                  749.
                  REQUIREMENT TO MAINTAIN PRESCRIPTION DROP BOXES AT MILITARY INSTALLATIONS
                  The Secretary of Defense shall ensure that each military installation under the jurisdiction of the Secretary has one or more prescription drop boxes to facilitate the safe disposal of unused prescription drugs, including opioids.
               
               
                  750.
                  WITHHOLDING OF FUNDS FOR FAILURE TO SUBMIT REPORTS ON HEALTH CONDITIONS OF MEMBERS OF THE ARMED FORCES ON ACTIVE DUTY DEVELOPED AFTER ADMINISTRATION OF COVID-19 VACCINE
                  
                     (a)
                     Withholding
                     Section 725(c) of the National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2024 (Public Law 118–31; 137 Stat. 309) is amended—
                     
                        (1)
                        by striking Not later than and inserting (1) Not later than; and
                     
                     
                        (2)
                        by adding at the end the following:
                        
                           
                              (2)
                              If the Secretary fails to submit a report required under paragraph (1) prior to the deadline applicable under such paragraph, the amount otherwise authorized to be appropriated for the Office of the Secretary of Defense for the next fiscal year which begins after the deadline shall be reduced by 5 percent.
                           
                           .
                        
                     
                  
                  
                     (b)
                     Effective date
                     The amendment made by subsection (a) shall take effect as if included in the enactment of National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2024.
                  
               
               
                  751.
                  HEALTH CARE STRATEGY FOR MEMBERS WHO PERFORM DUTY IN A COLD WEATHER LOCATION
                  
                     (a)
                     In general
                     The Assistant Secretary of Defense for Health Affairs shall convene a working group of subject matter experts from the extramural community and military health system to develop a strategy and the medical research and development requirements to deliver pre-hospital, life-saving interventions for members of the Armed Forces who perform duty in cold weather locations. Not later than July 1, 2025, the Assistant Secretary shall submit to the congressional defense committees such strategy and associated requirements. which shall include the following:
                     
                        (1)
                        An overarching plan addressing unique pre-hospital lifesaving and sustainment interventions required in cold weather locations and research required to advance medical care in cold weather locations.
                     
                     
                        (2)
                        A review of laboratory and medical product development capabilities of the Department of Defense to conduct research and development and support the transition and fielding of medical products for cold weather locations.
                     
                     
                        (3)
                        Identification of and recommendations to amend clinical practice guidelines to treat combat casualties in cold weather locations.
                     
                     
                        (4)
                        Initial capabilities documents identifying gaps and requirements to support pre-hospital, life-saving interventions during operations in cold weather locations.
                     
                     
                        (5)
                        A recommended investment plan to address clinical and medical research and development capability gaps identified in initial capabilities documents.
                     
                     
                        (6)
                        Engagement of academic medical centers and institutions to support public-private partnerships for research and development to address the pre-hospital needs of members following injury in cold weather locations.
                     
                  
                  
                     (b)
                     Cold weather location defined
                     In this section, the term cold weather location means a location for which a member may receive special duty pay—
                     
                        (1)
                        under section 352 of title 37, United States Code; and
                     
                     
                        (2)
                        pursuant to section 315 of the National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2024 (Public Law 118–31; 37 U.S.C. 352 note).
                     
                  
               
               
                  752.
                  STUDY ON INCREASED TELEHEALTH SERVICES OF THE DEFENSE HEALTH AGENCY
                  Not later than September 30, 2025, the Director of the Defense Health Agency shall submit to the congressional defense committees a report containing the results of a study to determine how to increase access of TRICARE beneficiaries to telehealth services of the Defense Health Agency.
               
               
                  753.
                  ANNUAL REPORT ON IMPLEMENTATION OF NALOXONE DISTRIBUTION
                  Section 706 of the National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2024 (10 U.S.C. 1090 note) is amended by adding at the end the following new subsection:
                  
                     
                        (d)
                        Annual report
                        Not later than 1 year after the date of the enactment of this subsection and annually thereafter, the Secretary of Defense shall submit to Congress a report on the implementation and effectiveness of naloxone distribution to members of the Armed Forces pursuant to this section to reverse opioid overdoses.
                     
                     .
                  
               
               
                  754.
                  FUNDING FOR DEFENSE HEALTH PROGRAMS FOR EDUCATION AND TRAINING
                  
                     (a)
                     Increase
                     Notwithstanding the amounts set forth in the funding tables in division D, (1) the amount authorized to be appropriated in section 1405 for Defense Health Program specified in the corresponding funding table in section 4501, for Education and Training is hereby increased by $25,000,000.
                  
                  
                     (b)
                     Offset
                     Notwithstanding the amounts set forth in the funding tables in division D, the amount authorized to be appropriated in section 1405 for Defense Health Programs, as specified in the corresponding funding table in section 4501, for Base Operations/Communications is hereby reduced by $25,000,000.
                  
               
            
         
         
            VIII
            ACQUISITION POLICY, ACQUISITION MANAGEMENT, AND RELATED MATTERS
            
               A
               Acquisition Policy and Management
               
                  801.
                  STREAMLINING OF MILESTONE B REQUIREMENTS
                  Section 4252 of title 10, United States Code, is amended—
                  
                     (1)
                     in the section heading, by striking 
                           certification required before
                         and inserting 
                           factors to be considered before
                        ;
                  
                  
                     (2)
                     by striking subsections (d), (e), and (f);
                  
                  
                     (3)
                     by redesignating subsections (a), (b), (c), and (g) as subsections (b), (d), (e), and (f), respectively;
                  
                  
                     (4)
                     by inserting before subsection (b), as so redesignated, the following new subsection:
                     
                        
                           (a)
                           Responsibilities
                           Before granting Milestone B approval for a major defense acquisition program or major subprogram, the milestone decision authority for the program or subprogram shall ensure that—
                           
                              (1)
                              information about the program or subprogram is sufficient to warrant entry of the program or subprogram into the engineering and manufacturing development phase;
                           
                           
                              (2)
                              appropriate trade-offs among cost, schedule, technical feasibility, and performance objectives have been made to ensure that the program or subprogram is affordable when considering the per-unit cost and the total life-cycle cost, and the Secretary of the military department concerned and the Chief of the armed force concerned concur with these trade-offs; and
                           
                           
                              (3)
                              there are sound plans for progression of the program or subprogram to the production phase.
                           
                        
                        ;
                     
                  
                  
                     (5)
                     by amending subsection (b), as so redesignated, to read as follows:
                     
                        
                           (b)
                           Factors to be considered for Milestone B approval
                           A major defense acquisition program or major subprogram may not receive Milestone B approval until the milestone decision authority confirms the following factors were considered in the decision to grant Milestone B approval:
                           
                              (1)
                              The program or subprogram has received a preliminary design review and a formal post-preliminary design review or an equivalent assessment was conducted.
                           
                           
                              (2)
                              The technology in the program or subprogram has been demonstrated in a relevant environment.
                           
                           
                              (3)
                              The program or subprogram is affordable when considering the ability of the Department of Defense to accomplish the program’s or subprogram’s mission using alternative systems.
                           
                           
                              (4)
                              The estimated procurement unit cost for the program or subprogram and the estimated date for initial operational capability for the baseline description for the program or subprogram (under section 4214 of this title) have been established.
                           
                           
                              (5)
                              Appropriate market research has been conducted prior to technology development to reduce duplication of existing technology and products.
                           
                           
                              (6)
                              The Department of Defense has completed an analysis of alternatives with respect to the program or subprogram.
                           
                           
                              (7)
                              The Joint Requirements Oversight Council has accomplished its duties with respect to the program or subprogram pursuant to section 181(b) of this title, including an analysis of the operational requirements for the program or subprogram.
                           
                           
                              (8)
                              Life-cycle sustainment planning has identified and evaluated relevant sustainment costs throughout development, production, operation, sustainment, and disposal of the program or subprogram, and any alternatives, and such costs are reasonable and have been accurately estimated.
                           
                           
                              (9)
                              An estimate has been made of the requirements for core logistics capabilities and the associated sustaining workloads required to support such requirements.
                           
                           
                              (10)
                              The program or subprogram complies with all relevant policies, regulations, and directives of the Department of Defense.
                           
                           
                              (11)
                              Appropriate actions have been taken to negotiate and enter into a contract or contract options for the technical data required to support the program or subprogram.
                           
                           
                              (12)
                              The program or subprogram has an approved life cycle sustainment plan required under section 4324(b) of this title.
                           
                           
                              (13)
                              In the case of a naval vessel program or subprogram, such program or subprogram is in compliance with the requirements of section 8669b of this title.
                           
                        
                        ;
                     
                  
                  
                     (6)
                     by inserting after subsection (b), as so redesignated, the following new subsection:
                     
                        
                           (c)
                           Written record of milestone decision
                           The milestone decision authority shall issue a written record of decision at the time that Milestone B approval is granted. The record shall confirm compliance with subsection (b) and specifically state that the milestone decision authority considered the factors described in subsection (b) prior to the decision to grant milestone approval. The milestone decision authority shall retain records of the basis for the milestone decision.
                        
                        ;
                     
                  
                  
                     (7)
                     in subsection (d), as so redesignated—
                     
                        (A)
                        in the subsection heading, by striking 
                              Certifications or Determination
                            and inserting 
                              Basis for milestone approval
                           ;
                     
                     
                        (B)
                        in paragraph (1)—
                        
                           (i)
                           in the matter preceding subparagraph (A), by striking certifications or a determination under subsection (a) and inserting a written record of the milestone decision under subsection (c);
                        
                        
                           (ii)
                           in subparagraph (A)—
                           
                              (I)
                              by striking certifications or determination of the milestone decision authority and inserting decision of the milestone decision authority; and
                           
                           
                              (II)
                              by striking certifications or determination specified in paragraph (1), (2), or (3) of subsection (a) and inserting decision specified in subsection (b); and
                           
                        
                        
                           (iii)
                           in subparagraph (B), by striking certifications or determination and inserting decision; and
                        
                     
                     
                        (C)
                        in paragraph (2)—
                        
                           (i)
                           by striking withdraw the certifications or determination concerned or; and
                        
                        
                           (ii)
                           by striking certifications, determination, or approval are and inserting approval is;
                        
                     
                  
                  
                     (8)
                     by amending subsection (e), as so redesignated, to read as follows:
                     
                        
                           (e)
                           Submissions to Congress on Milestone B
                           
                              (1)
                              Notification
                              Not later than 15 days after granting Milestone B approval for a major defense acquisition program or major subprogram, the milestone decision authority for the program or subprogram shall provide to the congressional defense committees and, in the case of intelligence or intelligence-related activities, the congressional intelligence committees a written record of the milestone decision.
                           
                           
                              (2)
                              Additional information
                              
                                 (A)
                                 At the request of any of the congressional defense committees or, in the case of intelligence or intelligence-related activities, the congressional intelligence committees, the milestone decision authority shall submit to the committee an explanation of the basis for the decision to grant Milestone B approval with respect to a major defense acquisition program or major subprogram, or further information or underlying documentation.
                              
                              
                                 (B)
                                 The explanation or additional information shall be submitted in unclassified form, but may include a classified annex.
                              
                           
                        
                        ; and
                     
                  
                  
                     (9)
                     in subsection (f), as so redesignated—
                     
                        (A)
                        by striking paragraphs (4) and (5);
                     
                     
                        (B)
                        by redesignating paragraph (6) as paragraph (4); and
                     
                     
                        (C)
                        by adding at the end the following new paragraph:
                        
                           
                              (5)
                              The term written record of milestone decision, with respect to a major defense acquisition program or a major subprogram, means a document signed by the milestone decision authority that formalizes approved entry of the program or subprogram into the next phase of the acquisition process.
                           
                           .
                        
                     
                  
               
               
                  802.
                  PROHIBITION ON CONTRACTING WITH COVERED ENTITIES THAT CONTRACT WITH LOBBYISTS FOR CHINESE MILITARY COMPANIES
                  
                     (a)
                     In general
                     
                        Chapter 363 of title 10, United States Code, is amended by adding at the end the following new section:
                     
                        
                           4663.
                           PROHIBITION ON CONTRACTING WITH COVERED ENTITIES THAT CONTRACT WITH LOBBYISTS FOR CHINESE MILITARY COMPANIES
                           
                              (a)
                              Prohibition on entering into contracts with covered entities
                              Except as provided in subsection (c), the Secretary of Defense may not enter into a contract with a company or a subsidiary of a company if such company or subsidiary is a party to a contract with a covered entity.
                           
                           
                              (b)
                              Waiver
                              Upon notification to Congress, the Secretary of Defense may waive the requirements of this section.
                           
                           
                              (c)
                              Definitions
                              In this section:
                              
                                 (1)
                                 The term covered entity means an entity that engages in lobbying activities for any entity determined to be a Chinese military company listed in accordance with section 1260H of the William M. (Mac) Thornberry National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2021 (10 U.S.C. 113 note).
                              
                              
                                 (2)
                                 The term lobbying activities has the meaning given in section 1045(c) of the National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2018 (10 U.S.C. 971 note prec.).
                              
                           
                        
                        .
                     
                  
                  
                     (b)
                     Effective date
                     This section and the amendments made by this section shall take effect on June 30, 2026.
                  
               
               
                  803.
                  NOTICE OF CONTRACT CANCELLATION OR TERMINATION RELATING TO REMOTE OR ISOLATED INSTALLATIONS
                  
                     Chapter 365 of title 10, United States Code, is amended by adding at the end the following new section:
                  
                     
                        4705.
                        NOTICE OF CONTRACT CANCELLATION OR TERMINATION RELATING TO REMOTE OR ISOLATED INSTALLATIONS
                        
                           (a)
                           In general
                           Except as provided by subsection (b), not later than 30 days prior to the Secretary or any other official of an element of the Department of Defense cancelling or terminating a contract, the Secretary shall submit to Congress a notice of such cancellation or termination if such cancellation or termination involves a reduction in employment of not fewer than—
                           
                              (1)
                              50 remote or isolated installation contractor employees; or
                           
                           
                              (2)
                              100 employees of contractors, including remote or isolated installation contractor employees.
                           
                        
                        
                           (b)
                           Waiver
                           
                              (1)
                              The Secretary may waive subsection (a) with respect to the cancellation or termination of a contract if the Secretary determines that such waiver is in the interest of national security.
                           
                           
                              (2)
                              If the Secretary waives subsection (a) with respect to the cancellation or termination of a contract, the Secretary shall submit the notice required by such subsection with respect to such cancellation or termination not later than one week after such cancellation or termination.
                           
                        
                        
                           (c)
                           Definitions
                           In this section:
                           
                              (1)
                              The term military installation has the meaning given such term in section 2801(c) of this title.
                           
                           
                              (2)
                              The term remote or isolated installation means a military installation that is a remote military installation, as determined by the Secretary pursuant to the policy required by section 565 of the National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2022 (Public Law 117–81; 135 Stat. 1749; 10 U.S.C. 1781b note).
                           
                           
                              (3)
                              The term remote or isolated installation contractor employee means an individual who—
                              
                                 (A)
                                 is an employee of a contractor;
                              
                              
                                 (B)
                                 as such an employee, provides goods or services to a remote or isolated installation; and
                              
                              
                                 (C)
                                 resides in the same geographic area as such remote or isolated installation.
                              
                           
                           
                              (4)
                              The term Secretary means the Secretary of Defense.
                           
                        
                     
                     .
                  
               
               
                  804.
                  PROCUREMENT OF CLEANING PRODUCTS
                  The Secretary shall, to the maximum extent practicable, only procure cleaning products that are identified by—
                  
                     (1)
                     the Safer Choice program; or
                  
                  
                     (2)
                     an independent third-party organization that provides certifications in a manner consistent with the Safer Choice program.
                  
               
               
                  805.
                  NO CONFLICTS OF INTEREST FOR FUEL SERVICES FINANCIAL MANAGEMENT CONTRACTS
                  
                     (a)
                     Contracting prohibition
                     The Department of Defense shall not—
                     
                        (1)
                        contract with a fuel service provider (including any fuel supplier or broker), or a contractor who has subcontracted with a fuel service provider, to oversee the financial management of, or the processing of fuel transactions for, the Department’s fuel network; or
                     
                     
                        (2)
                        make any fuel purchases through a fuel network managed by a fuel service provider and administered under a no-cost contract.
                     
                  
                  
                     (b)
                     Waiver
                     The Secretary of Defense may waive the prohibition under subsection (a) if the Secretary makes a determination that such waiver is vital to the national security of the United States; and submits to Congress a report justifying the use of such waiver and the importance of such waiver to the national security of the United States.
                  
               
               
                  806.
                  PROHIBITION ON CERTAIN TRANSPORTATION CONTRACTS
                  
                     (a)
                     In general
                     The Secretary of Defense may not award a contract or order to a transportation service provider for any shipment that requires any transportation protective service if such transportation service provider is not authorized by the Department of Defense to transport cargo requiring such a service.
                  
                  
                     (b)
                     Transportation requirement waiver limits
                     The Secretary of Defense may not, except by issuing a rule, waive or reduce—
                     
                        (1)
                        any requirement regarding transportation protective services for any transportation service provider; or
                     
                     
                        (2)
                        any security clearance requirements for drivers of transportation service providers.
                     
                  
                  
                     (c)
                     Transportation protective service; transportation service provider defined
                     In this section, the terms transportation protective service and transportation service provider have the meanings given such terms, respectively, in the publication of the Military Surface Deployment and Distribution Command entitled MILITARY FREIGHT TRAFFIC UNIFIED RULES PUBLICATION-1 (MFTURP-1), issued September 12, 2022, or any successor thereto.
                  
               
               
                  807.
                  PROHIBITION ON DEPARTMENT OF DEFENSE PROCUREMENT FROM COMPANIES PROVIDING SEMICONDUCTORS AND SEMICONDUCTOR-RELATED PRODUCTS TO HUAWEI
                  
                     (a)
                     Prohibition
                     Beginning on the date that is 90 days after the enactment of this Act, the Secretary of Defense shall not enter into or renew a contract for the procurement of any covered semiconductor products and services for the Department of Defense with any entity that provides covered semiconductor products and services to Huawei.
                  
                  
                     (b)
                     Certification process
                     The Secretary of Defense shall, not later than the date on which the prohibition in subsection (a) of this section takes effect, develop and implement a process requiring each entity seeking to provide covered semiconductor products and services to the Department of Defense to certify to the Department of Defense that such entity does not provide covered semiconductor products and services to Huawei.
                  
                  
                     (c)
                     Definitions
                     In this section—
                     
                        (1)
                        the term covered semiconductor products and services means—
                        
                           (A)
                           semiconductors;
                        
                        
                           (B)
                           equipment for manufacturing semiconductors; and
                        
                        
                           (C)
                           tools for designing semiconductors; and
                        
                     
                     
                        (2)
                        the term Huawei means—
                        
                           (A)
                           Huawei Technologies Company;
                        
                        
                           (B)
                           any entity that is a subsidiary, owner, beneficial owner, affiliate, or successor of Huawei Technologies Company; and
                        
                        
                           (C)
                           any entity that is directly or indirectly controlled by Huawei Technologies Company.
                        
                     
                  
               
               
                  808.
                  UPDATED GUIDANCE ON PLANNING FOR GLOBAL DEMAND
                  
                     (a)
                     Program guidance on planning for global demand
                     Not later than one year after the date of the enactment of this Act, the Under Secretary of Defense for Acquisition and Sustainment shall ensure that the program guidance for major defense acquisition programs (as defined in section 4201 of title 10, United States Code), and for acquisition programs and projects that are carried out using the rapid fielding or rapid prototyping acquisition pathway under section 804 of the National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2016 (Public Law 114–92; 10 U.S.C. 3201 note prec.) is revised to integrate planning for global demand under foreign military sales, direct commercial sales, and other relevant transfer authorities to capture and plan for international demand under section 25 of the Arms Export Control Act (22 U.S.C. 2765), including—
                     
                        (1)
                        for major defense acquisition programs, an assessment of such programs to identify global demand; and
                     
                     
                        (2)
                        for technologies under an acquisition program or project carried out using the rapid fielding or rapid prototyping acquisition pathway that are transitioned to a major capability acquisition program, an assessment of potential global demand needs of such technologies not later than one year after the date of such transition.
                     
                  
                  
                     (b)
                     Assessment of Global Demand
                     The Under Secretary shall consult with the heads of relevant Federal agencies and existing databases, including any databases administered by the Directorate of Defense Trade Controls of the Department of State, to issue the guidance required under subsection (a).
                  
                  
                     (c)
                     Revision of guidance for program protection plans
                     Not later than three years after the date of the enactment of this Act, the Under Secretary shall revise the guidance for program protection plans to integrate a requirement to determine global demand for the programs covered by such plans.
                  
               
               
                  809.
                  PROHIBITION ON CONTRACTING WITH SHIPYARDS CONTROLLED BY A FOREIGN ADVERSARY
                  
                     (a)
                     In general
                     The Secretary of Defense may not enter into any contract or other agreement with a shipyard controlled by a foreign adversary.
                  
                  
                     (b)
                     Definitions
                     In this section:
                     
                        (1)
                        The term controlled by a foreign adversary means, with respect to a shipyard, that such shipyard is—
                        
                           (A)
                           a foreign person that is domiciled in, is headquartered in, has its principal place of business in, or is organized under the laws of a foreign adversary country;
                        
                        
                           (B)
                           an entity with respect to which a foreign person or combination of foreign persons described in subparagraph (A) directly or indirectly own at least a 20 percent stake; or
                        
                        
                           (C)
                           a person subject to the direction or control of a foreign person or entity described in subparagraph (A) or (B).
                        
                     
                     
                        (2)
                        The term foreign adversary country means a country specified in section 4872(d)(2) of title 10, United States Code.
                     
                  
               
               
                  809A.
                  BUDGET RECOMMENDATIONS FOR MULTIYEAR PROCUREMENT OF PRIORITY ITEMS
                  
                     (a)
                     Recommendation
                     Along with the budget materials submitted to Congress in support of the annual budget request of the President (submitted to Congress pursuant to section 1105 of title 31, United States Code), for fiscal year 2026 and for each fiscal year thereafter, the Secretary of Defense, in coordination with the Director of the Office of Management and Budget and the Comptroller General of the United States, shall include an annex with recommendations to Congress—
                     
                        (1)
                        contracts for priority items that could be considered under a covered multiyear contract that were not considered as such in the budget materials submitted, and the rationale for exclusion of such priority items from such materials; 
                     
                     
                        (2)
                        the cost of implementation of such contracts for priority items under a covered multiyear contract;
                     
                     
                        (3)
                        any challenges to implementing such contracts for priority items under a covered multiyear contract; and
                     
                     
                        (4)
                        any technical assistance required to include contracts for such priority items under a covered multiyear contract in a subsequent fiscal year.
                     
                  
                  
                     (b)
                     Prioritization
                     The Secretary of Defense, in coordination with the covered officials, shall designate any contracts for priority items based on need that will best serve the commanders of the geographic combatant commands for contingency planning and execution.
                  
                  
                     (c)
                     Definitions
                     In this section:
                     
                        (1)
                        The term contract for priority items means a contract for goods for any the following:
                        
                           (A)
                           Shipbuilding.
                        
                        
                           (B)
                           Fighter aircraft.
                        
                        
                           (C)
                           Submarines.
                        
                        
                           (D)
                           Ground vehicle systems.
                        
                        
                           (E)
                           Unmanned aerial systems.
                        
                        
                           (F)
                           Hypersonics.
                        
                        
                           (G)
                           Any goods needed to address supply chain disruptions and constraints for the Department of Defense.
                        
                     
                     
                        (2)
                        The term covered officials mean—
                        
                           (A)
                           the Secretary of the Army;
                        
                        
                           (B)
                           the Secretary of the Navy;
                        
                        
                           (C)
                           the Secretary of the Air Force; and
                        
                        
                           (D)
                           the Director of the National Guard Bureau.
                        
                     
                     
                        (3)
                        The term covered multiyear procurement means a multiyear contract described under section 3501 of title 10, United States Code, except that—
                        
                           (A)
                           such contract shall be for a term of greater than one but less than three years;
                        
                        
                           (B)
                           performance of such contract during the second or subsequent year of such term may be contingent upon the appropriation of funds and may provide for a cancellation payment to be made to the contractor if such appropriations are not made.
                        
                     
                  
               
               
                  809B.
                  PROHIBITION ON CERTAIN CHINESE E-COMMERCE PURCHASES
                  
                     (a)
                     In general
                     None of the funds authorized to be appropriated by this Act or otherwise made available for fiscal year 2025 for the Department of Defense may be obligated or expended to acquire any good from Temu or Shein or through a service operated by either such entity except as provided by subsection (b).
                  
                  
                     (b)
                     Waiver
                     Subsection (a) shall not apply with respect to the acquisition of a good to the extent that the Secretary of Defense determines that such acquisition of such good from Temu or Shein or through a service operated by either such entity is in the interest of national security.
                  
               
               
                  809C.
                  PROHIBITION AND REPORT ON CONTRACTS FOR ONLINE TUTORING SERVICES
                  
                     (a)
                     Prohibition
                     The Secretary of Defense may not enter into a contract for online tutoring services which could result in personal data of citizens of the United States being transferred to the control of the People’s Republic of China
                  
                  
                     (b)
                     Report
                     The Secretary of Defense shall submit to the congressional defense committees a report on the risks of personal data of citizens of the United States being transferred to the control of the People’s Republic of China pursuant to any contracts for online tutoring services of the Department of Defense in progress.
                  
               
               
                  809D.
                  REVIEW PANEL ON FAIR AND REASONABLE PRICING AND CONTRACT OVERSIGHT
                  
                     (a)
                     Establishment
                     Not later than 60 days after the date of enactment of this section, the Secretary of Defense shall establish a review panel on fair and reasonable pricing and contract oversight of sole-source contracts for munitions and weapons systems contracts, including related contracts for services and spare parts.
                  
                  
                     (b)
                     Membership
                     
                        (1)
                        In general
                        The review panel shall be composed of the following six members:
                        
                           (A)
                           The Director Price, Cost, and Finance of the Office of Defense Pricing and Contracting of the Department of Defense.
                        
                        
                           (B)
                           The Director of the Defense Contract Audit Agency.
                        
                        
                           (C)
                           The Director of the Defense Contract Management Agency.
                        
                        
                           (D)
                           An individual from the Office of the Inspector General of the Department of Defense.
                        
                        
                           (E)
                           Two individuals appointed by the Secretary of Defense with expertise in contract pricing, contract negotiations, and contract oversight.
                        
                     
                     
                        (2)
                        Expert appointment criteria
                        When appointing individuals described in paragraph (1)(E) to the review panel, the Secretary of Defense shall appoint only individuals—
                        
                           (A)
                           that have extensive experience in both the public and private (including defense and commercial experience) sectors; and
                        
                        
                           (B)
                           who, in the three-year period immediately preceding such appointment—
                           
                              (i)
                              have not been employed by a contractor of the Department of Defense; or
                           
                           
                              (ii)
                              undertaken any actions on behalf of such a contractor for which the individual was compensated in any way.
                           
                        
                     
                     
                        (3)
                        Member employment restrictions
                        In addition to any other restriction imposed by law, during the period beginning on the date an individual is appointed as a member of the review panel and ending on the date that is 3 years after such individual ceases to be a member of the review panel, such individual may not be employed by a contractor of the Department of Defense or undertake any actions on behalf of such a contractor for which the individual is compensated in any way.
                     
                  
                  
                     (c)
                     Duties
                     The review panel shall do the following:
                     
                        (1)
                        Identify an extensive and representative sample of all fixed price contracts and subcontracts, including delivery and task orders, in excess of $10,000,000 awarded during a period determined by the review panel, except that—
                        
                           (A)
                           the period determined by the review panel shall include the 15-year period immediately preceding the date of the enactment of this Act; and
                        
                        
                           (B)
                           the sample shall include contracts the performance of which is at least 75 percent complete.
                        
                     
                     
                        (2)
                        Provide to the Secretary of Defense and the Committees on Armed Services of the Senate and the House of Representatives a comparison between negotiated contract prices and actual cost outcomes on the contracts and subcontracts included in the sample identified under paragraph (1).
                     
                     
                        (3)
                        Provide to the Secretary of Defense and the Committees on Armed Services of the Senate and the House of Representatives an analysis of the sample identified under paragraph (1) to determine if the pricing for the contracting in such sample exceeded fair and reasonable prices and, if so, whether excessive pricing is widespread or unique to certain weapons systems, sectors, or companies.
                     
                     
                        (4)
                        Provide to the Secretary of Defense and the Committees on Armed Services of the Senate and the House of Representatives an analysis of the sample identified under paragraph (1) that compares initial price submitted by the contractor and subcontractor in the proposal to actual cost outcomes in order to determine the accuracy of contractor estimating systems.
                     
                     
                        (5)
                        Provide to the Secretary of Defense and the Committees on Armed Services of the Senate and the House of Representatives an analysis of the degree of competition on spare parts contracts determined to be a commercial product (as defined in section 103 of title 41, United States Code).
                     
                     
                        (6)
                        Conduct a review and provide an analysis to the Secretary of Defense and the Committees on Armed Services of the Senate and the House of Representatives that determines the degree to which contract prices for contracts and subcontracts for spare parts that are subject to the submission of certified cost and pricing data exceed fair and reasonable prices in comparison to contracts and subcontracts for spare parts that do not require the submission of certified cost and pricing data.
                     
                     
                        (7)
                        Provide to the Secretary of Defense and the Committees on Armed Services of the Senate and the House of Representatives an analysis of the adequacy and degree of contractor oversight by the Department of Defense, including the sufficiency of post-contract award audits for compliance with chapter 271 of title 10, United States Code.
                     
                  
                  
                     (d)
                     Administrative matters
                     
                        (1)
                        In general
                        The Secretary of Defense shall provide the review panel with timely access to appropriate information, data, resources, and analysis so that the review panel may conduct a thorough and independent assessment as required by this section.
                     
                     
                        (2)
                        Subpoena powers
                        To the degree that any company who has entered into a contract or subcontract subject to the chapter 271 of title 10, United States Code, and refuses to provide actual cost information to include all internal estimates to complete for unfinished work, the Inspector General shall use its subpoena powers to compel the delivery of the requested information.
                     
                     
                        (3)
                        Inapplicability of FACA
                        
                           Chapter 10 of title 5, United States Code, shall not apply to the review panel.
                     
                  
                  
                     (e)
                     Report
                     
                        (1)
                        Review panel report
                        Not later than one year after the date on which the Secretary of Defense establishes the review panel, the panel shall transmit a final report to the Secretary.
                     
                     
                        (2)
                        Elements
                        The final report shall contain a detailed statement of the findings and conclusions of the review panel, including all analyses required by this section as well as recommendations regarding the adherence to fair and reasonable pricing for contracts and subcontracts and improvements related to contractor oversight.
                     
                     
                        (3)
                        Interim reports
                        
                           (A)
                           Not later than 8 months and 12 months after the date of the enactment of this Act, the Secretary of Defense shall submit a report to, or brief, the congressional defense committees on the interim findings of the review panel with respect to the elements set forth in paragraph (2).
                        
                        
                           (B)
                           Not later than 4 months after the Secretary submits a report to or briefs the congressional defense committees under subparagraph (A), the Secretary of Defense shall submit a second report to, or provided a second briefing to, the congressional defense committees on the interim findings of the review panel with respect to the elements set forth in paragraph (2).
                        
                        
                           (C)
                           The panel shall provide regular updates to the Secretary of Defense for purposes of providing the interim reports required under this paragraph.
                        
                     
                     
                        (4)
                        Final report
                        Not later than 30 days after receiving the final report of the review panel under paragraph (1), the Secretary of Defense shall transmit such final report, together with such comments as the Secretary determines appropriate, to the congressional defense committees.
                     
                  
                  
                     (f)
                     Defense acquisition workforce development fund support
                     The Secretary of Defense may use amounts available in the Department of Defense Acquisition Workforce Development Account established under section 1705 of title 10, United States Code, to support activities of the review panel under this section.
                  
                  
                     (g)
                     Review panel defined
                     In this section, the term review panel means the review panel established under subsection (a).
                  
               
            
            
               B
               Amendments to General Contracting Authorities, Procedures, and Limitations
               
                  811.
                  MODIFICATION TO EXCEPTION FOR SUBMISSION OF CERTIFIED COST OR PRICING DATA FOR CERTAIN COMPONENTS AND PARTS OF COMMERCIAL PRODUCTS
                  
                     (a)
                     In general
                     Section 3703(d) of title 10, United States Code, is amended—
                     
                        (1)
                        in paragraph (1)—
                        
                           (A)
                           by striking component of the Department of Defense and inserting element of the Department of Defense; and
                        
                        
                           (B)
                           by striking of such product or service. and inserting the following: “of—
                           
                              
                                 (A)
                                 such commercial product, or a component or part of such commercial product, or a service procured for support of such product; or
                              
                              
                                 (B)
                                 such commercial service.
                              
                              ;
                           
                        
                     
                     
                        (2)
                        in paragraph (2)—
                        
                           (A)
                           by striking shall request and inserting the following: “shall—
                           
                              
                                 (A)
                                 request
                              
                              ;
                           
                        
                        
                           (B)
                           in subparagraph (A), as so designated, by striking the period at the end and inserting ; and; and
                        
                        
                           (C)
                           by adding at the end the following new subparagraph:
                           
                              
                                 (B)
                                 provide to the head of the contracting activity a rationale and detailed explanation for not making such presumption.
                              
                              ; and
                           
                        
                     
                     
                        (3)
                        by adding at the end the following new paragraph:
                        
                           
                              (4)
                              In a review conducted under this subsection, the head of a contracting activity may consider evidence of whether or not the product or service to be procured is a commercial product or a commercial service.
                           
                           .
                        
                     
                  
                  
                     (b)
                     Technical amendment
                     Section 3703(e) of title 10, United States Code, is amended by inserting 
                           Evidence on recent purchase prices.—
                         before A contracting officer. 
                  
               
               
                  812.
                  APPLICATION OF RECENT PRICE HISTORY AND PURCHASE ORDERS TO TRUTHFUL COST OR PRICING DATA REQUIREMENTS
                  
                     (a)
                     Modifications to definitions
                     
                        (1)
                        Purchase order defined
                        Section 3701 of title 10, United States Code, is amended by inserting at the end the following new paragraph:
                        
                           
                              (3)
                              Purchase order
                              The term purchase order shall have the meaning given in section 13.302 of the Federal Acquisition Regulation (or any successor regulation).
                           
                           . 
                        
                     
                     
                        (2)
                        Inclusion of purchase orders in cost or pricing data
                        Section 3701(1) of title 10, United States Code, is amended—
                        
                           (A)
                           by inserting or purchase order after price of a contract; and
                        
                        
                           (B)
                           by inserting or purchase order modification after contract modification.
                        
                     
                  
                  
                     (b)
                     Cost or pricing data and certification requirements for purchase orders
                     Section 3702 of title 10, United States Code, is amended—
                     
                        (1)
                        in subsection (a), by adding at the end the following new paragraph: 
                        
                           
                              (5)
                              Purchase orders
                              An offeror for a purchase order shall be required to submit cost or pricing data before award of the purchase order.
                           
                           ; and
                        
                     
                     
                        (2)
                        in subsection (c)—
                        
                           (A)
                           in paragraph (1), by striking or at the end;
                        
                        
                           (B)
                           in paragraph (2), by striking the period at the end and inserting ; or; and
                        
                        
                           (C)
                           by adding at the end the following new paragraph:
                           
                              
                                 (3)
                                 in the case of a submission by an offeror for a purchase order, to the head of the contracting activity (or a designated representative of such head). 
                              
                              .
                           
                        
                     
                  
                  
                     (c)
                     Recent price history exception to submission of certified cost or pricing data
                     Section 3703 of title 10, United States Code, is amended—
                     
                        (1)
                        in subsection (a)—
                        
                           (A)
                           in the matter preceding paragraph (1), by striking a subcontract, or modification of a contract or subcontract and inserting a subcontract, a purchase order, or a modification of a contract, subcontract, or purchase order; and
                        
                        
                           (B)
                           in paragraph (1)—
                           
                              (i)
                              in subparagraph (A), by striking or at the end;
                           
                           
                              (ii)
                              in subparagraph (B), by inserting or at the end; and
                           
                           
                              (iii)
                              by adding at the end the following new subparagraph:
                              
                                 
                                    (C)
                                    recent price history as described in subsection (g).
                                 
                                 ; and 
                              
                           
                        
                     
                     
                        (2)
                        by adding at the end the following new subsection:
                        
                           
                              (g)
                              Determination of recent price history
                              Notwithstanding the requirements of subsection (e), for purposes of applying the exception under subsection (a)(1)(C) to the required submission of certified cost or pricing data for a subcontract, a purchase order, or a modification to a subcontract or purchase order with a proposed value less than or equal to $5,000,000, the contracting officer shall ensure that the price is reasonable by considering each of the following:
                              
                                 (1)
                                 Prices paid by the Government for a subcontract, purchase order, or modification of a subcontract or purchase order for the same good or service from the same subcontractor or supplier during the 12-month period immediately preceding the issuance of a request for proposal, request for a modification, issuance of a purchase order, or similar written intent to procure goods or services.
                              
                              
                                 (2)
                                 Such prices paid during such 12-month period that were supported by cost or pricing data or other data adequate to determine a reasonable price.
                              
                              
                                 (3)
                                 The effect of inflation or other macroeconomic factors on the reliability of such prices paid.
                              
                           
                           .
                        
                     
                  
                  
                     (d)
                     Conforming amendments
                     
                        Chapter 271 of title 10, United States Code, is amended—
                     
                        (1)
                        in section 3704, by striking subcontract, or modification of a contract or subcontract each place it appears and inserting subcontract, a purchase order, or a modification of a contract, subcontract, or purchase order; and
                     
                     
                        (2)
                        in section 3705, by striking subcontract, or modification of a contract or subcontract each place it appears and inserting subcontract, a purchase order, or a modification of a contract, subcontract, or purchase order. 
                     
                  
                  
                     (e)
                     Conforming regulations
                     Not later than 120 days after the date of the enactment of this Act, the Secretary of Defense shall revise the Department of Defense Supplement to the Federal Acquisition Regulation to conform with the amendments made by this section.
                  
               
               
                  813.
                  ELIMINATION OF LATE COST AND PRICING DATA SUBMISSION DEFENSE
                  Section 3706(c) of title 10, United States Code, is amended—
                  
                     (1)
                     in paragraph (3) by striking or at the end;
                  
                  
                     (2)
                     in paragraph (4) by striking the period and inserting ; or; and
                  
                  
                     (3)
                     by adding at the end the following:
                     
                        
                           (5)
                           the cost or pricing data were submitted by the prime contractor or subcontractor after the date of agreement on the price of the contract (or price of the modification) or, if applicable consistent with subsection (a)(2), such other date agreed upon between the parties.
                        
                        .
                     
                  
               
               
                  814.
                  CLARIFICATION OF OTHER TRANSACTION AUTHORITY FOR FOLLOW ON PRODUCTION
                  Section 4022 of title 10, United States Code, is amended—
                  
                     (1)
                     in subsection (e), by adding at the end the following new paragraph:
                     
                        
                           (6)
                           The term follow-on production contract or transaction means a contract or transaction to produce, sustain, or otherwise implement the results of a successfully completed prototype project for continued or expanded use by the Department of Defense.
                        
                        ; and
                     
                  
                  
                     (2)
                     in subsection (f)—
                     
                        (A)
                        in paragraph (1), by adding at the end the following: A follow-on production award may be provided for in a transaction entered into under this section for a prototype project, awarded with respect to such a transaction as one or more separate awards, or a combination thereof.; and
                     
                     
                        (B)
                        in paragraph (2), by inserting , one or more separate awards of follow-on production contracts or transactions with respect to a transaction described in such paragraph, or a combination thereof, after paragraph (1).
                     
                  
               
               
                  815.
                  CLARIFICATION OF OTHER TRANSACTION AUTHORITY FOR FACILITY REPAIR
                  
                     (a)
                     In general
                     Section 4022(i)(2) of title 10, United States Code, is amended—
                     
                        (1)
                        in subparagraph (A), by striking except for projects carried out for the purpose of repairing a facility,; 
                     
                     
                        (2)
                        by inserting (A) before In carrying out;
                     
                     
                        (3)
                        by redesignating subparagraphs (A) and (B) as clauses (i) and (ii), respectively; and
                     
                     
                        (4)
                        by adding at the end the following new subparagraph:
                        
                           
                              (B)
                              The requirements of this paragraph shall not apply to projects carried out for the purpose of repairing a facility.
                           
                           .
                        
                     
                  
                  
                     (b)
                     Applicability
                     This section and the amendments made by this section shall apply with respect to a transaction for a prototype project under section 4022(i) of title 10, United States Code, entered into on or after the date of the enactment of this section. 
                  
               
               
                  816.
                  SPECIAL OPERATIONS FORCES PROCUREMENT AUTHORITY
                  Section 1903 of title 41, United States Code, is amended—
                  
                     (1)
                     in subsection (b), in the matter preceding paragraph (1), by striking For a procurement and inserting Except as provided in subsection (d), for a procurement; and
                  
                  
                     (2)
                     by adding at the end the following new subsection:
                     
                        
                           (d)
                           Special operations forces procurement
                           
                              (1)
                              In general
                              For the purposes of this section—
                              
                                 (A)
                                 a procurement for special operations forces to perform activities described in section 167(k) of title 10 in support of an undeclared contingency operation shall be deemed to be in support of a contingency operation (as defined in section 101(a) of title 10);
                              
                              
                                 (B)
                                 contracts to be awarded with respect to such a procurement shall be deemed to be awarded and performed outside of the United States;
                              
                              
                                 (C)
                                 purchases to be made under such a procurement shall be deemed to be made outside of the United States; and
                              
                              
                                 (D)
                                 with respect to such a procurement to which this section applies under subsection (a)—
                                 
                                    (i)
                                    the amount in subsection (b)(1) is deemed to be $35,000; and
                                 
                                 
                                    (ii)
                                    the $5,000,000 limitation in sections 1901(a)(2) and 3305(a)(2) of this title and section 3205(a)(2) of title 10 is deemed to be $15,000,000.
                                 
                              
                           
                           
                              (2)
                              Definitions
                              In this subsection:
                              
                                 (A)
                                 Special operations forces
                                 The term special operations forces has the meaning given such term in section 167(j) of title 10.
                              
                              
                                 (B)
                                 Undeclared contingency operation
                                 The term undeclared contingency operation means an operation in which members of the armed forces are or may become involved in military actions, operations, or hostilities against an enemy of the United States or against an opposing foreign force, other than an operation designated by the Secretary of Defense as a contingency operation (as defined in section 101(a) of title 10).
                              
                           
                        
                        .
                     
                  
               
               
                  817.
                  AVOIDANCE OF USE OF LOWEST PRICE TECHNICALLY ACCEPTABLE SOURCE SELECTION CRITERIA FOR PROCUREMENT OF MUNITIONS RESPONSE SERVICES
                  Section 880(c)(1) of the John S. McCain National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2019 (41 U.S.C. 3701 note) is amended by inserting munitions response services, after telecommunications devices and services,.
               
               
                  818.
                  EXTENSION OF TEMPORARY AUTHORITY TO MODIFY CERTAIN CONTRACTS AND OPTIONS BASED ON THE EFFECTS OF INFLATION
                  Subsection (e) of the first section of Public Law 85–804 (50 U.S.C. 1431(e)) is amended by striking December 31, 2024 and inserting December 31, 2025.
               
               
                  819.
                  LIMITATION ON AVAILABILITY OF FUNDS FOR CHILLER CLASS PROJECTS OF THE DEPARTMENT OF THE AIR FORCE
                  
                     (a)
                     Limitation
                     None of the funds authorized to be appropriated by this Act or otherwise made available for fiscal year 2025 for the Air Force may be obligated or expended to acquire goods or services under a non-competitive justification and approval for the purposes of standardizing the heating, ventilation, and air conditioning chillers at installations of the Air Force until the date on which the Secretary of Defense submits to the congressional defense committees the certification described in subsection (b).
                  
                  
                     (b)
                     Certification described
                     The certification described in this subsection is a certification that—
                     
                        (1)
                        the Secretary of Defense has developed a methodology to compare the cost of initially acquiring the heating, ventilation, and air conditioning chillers and equipment supporting such chillers for the purposes described in subsection (a) under a non-competitive justification and approval to the cost of initially acquiring such chillers and equipment for such purposes using competitive procedures;
                     
                     
                        (2)
                        the Secretary of Defense has established metrics to measure the effects of standardizing the heating, ventilation, and air conditioning chillers at installations of the Air Force, including the costs of training technicians, any savings resulting from the ability of employees of the Government to repair such chillers, the cost of initially acquiring chillers and equipment supporting such chillers for such purpose, and the life cycle costs of such chillers; and
                     
                     
                        (3)
                        the Secretary of Defense has collected data demonstrating that the use of procedures other than competitive procedures to acquire chillers for the purposes of standardizing the heating, ventilation, and air conditioning chillers at installations of the Air Force has resulted in lower life cycle costs compared to using competitive procedures for such acquisitions.
                     
                  
                  
                     (c)
                     Definitions
                     In this section:
                     
                        (1)
                        The term competitive procedures has the meaning given such term in section 3012 of title 10, United States Code.
                     
                     
                        (2)
                        The term non-competitive justification and approval means the justification and approval required by section 3204(e)(1) of title 10, United States Code, for the use of procedures other than competitive procedures to award a contract.
                     
                  
               
               
                  820.
                  REGULATIONS APPLICABLE TO COMBAT FOOTWEAR OF MEMBERS OF ALL BRANCHES OF THE ARMED FORCES
                  
                     (a)
                     In general
                     Not later than 180 days after the date of the enactment of this section, the Secretary of Defense shall issue regulations prohibiting any member of the Armed Forces from wearing optional combat boots as part of a required uniform unless the optional combat boots are entirely manufactured in the United States and entirely made of—
                     
                        (1)
                        materials grown, reprocessed, reused, or produced in the United States; and
                     
                     
                        (2)
                        components that are manufactured entirely in the United States and entirely made of materials described in paragraph (1).
                     
                  
                  
                     (b)
                     Definitions
                     In this section:
                     
                        (1)
                        The term optional combat boots, with respect to a member of the Armed Forces, combat boots not furnished to such member of the Armed Forces by the Secretary of Defense.
                     
                     
                        (2)
                        The term required uniform means a uniform a member of the Armed Forces is required to wear as a member of the Armed Forces.
                     
                  
               
               
                  821.
                  ADDITION OF DOMESTICALLY PRODUCED STAINLESS STEEL FLATWARE TO THE REQUIREMENT TO BUY CERTAIN ARTICLES FROM AMERICAN SOURCES
                  
                     (a)
                     Addition to covered items
                     
                        (1)
                        In general
                        Section 4862(b) of title 10, United States Code, is amended—
                        
                           (A)
                           by inserting after paragraph (2) the following new paragraph:
                           
                              
                                 (3)
                                 Stainless steel flatware.
                              
                              ; and
                           
                        
                        
                           (B)
                           by redesignating paragraph (5) as paragraph (4).
                        
                     
                     
                        (2)
                        Effective date
                        The amendment made by paragraph (1) shall take effect on October 1, 2025.
                     
                  
               
            
            
               C
               Provisions Relating to Workforce Development
               
                  831.
                  UPDATED ADAPTIVE ACQUISITION FRAMEWORK TRAINING
                  
                     (a)
                     In general
                     Subchapter IV of chapter 87 of title 10, United States Code, is amended by adding at the end the following new section:
                     
                        
                           1749.
                           UPDATED ADAPTIVE ACQUISITION FRAMEWORK TRAINING
                           
                              (a)
                              In general
                              The President of the Defense Acquisition University, in coordination with the Secretary of Defense and in consultation with industry representatives, shall ensure that the training program for the acquisition workforce on the adaptive acquisition framework (as described in Department of Defense Instruction 5000.02, Operation of the Adaptive Acquisition Framework) that is part of the curriculum of the Defense Acquisition University includes training on—
                              
                                 (1)
                                 the relevant innovative procedures and best practices of the private sector for acquiring goods and services; and
                              
                              
                                 (2)
                                 acquisition authorities applicable to the adaptive acquisition framework that were established or otherwise made available to the Department of Defense in the preceding two years.
                              
                           
                           
                              (b)
                              Training requirements
                              
                                 (1)
                                 The training required by subsection (a) shall include—
                                 
                                    (A)
                                    learning objectives related to market research, communicating with industry, and identifying and implementing the best practices used by industry for acquiring goods and services;
                                 
                                 
                                    (B)
                                    learning objectives that encourage the use of technologies that are commercial products, commercial services, and commercially available off-the-shelf items (as such terms are defined in sections 103, 103a, and 104, respectively, of title 41), to the greatest extent practicable; and
                                 
                                 
                                    (C)
                                    training on technology procured as a consumption-based solution (as defined in section 834 of the William M. (Mac) Thornberry National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2021 (10 U.S.C. 4571 note)) or emerging technology.
                                 
                              
                              
                                 (2)
                                 Beginning 18 months after the date of the enactment of this Act, and not less than every two years thereafter, the President of the Defense Acquisition University shall update the training described in subsection (a) to include all acquisition authorities applicable to the adaptive acquisition framework that were established or otherwise made available to the Department of Defense in the two years preceding such update.
                              
                           
                           
                              (c)
                              Acquisition workforce defined
                              In this section, the term acquisition workforce has the meaning given such term in section 101(a), except that the term only includes—
                              
                                 (1)
                                 program executive officers (as such term is defined in section 1737 of this title);
                              
                              
                                 (2)
                                 program managers (as such term is defined in such section);
                              
                              
                                 (3)
                                 general officers (as such term is defined in section 101(b) of this title);
                              
                              
                                 (4)
                                 flag officers (as such term is defined in such section); and
                              
                              
                                 (5)
                                 individuals holding Senior Executive Service positions (as such term is defined in section 3132 of title 5).
                              
                           
                        
                        .
                     
                  
                  
                     (b)
                     Clerical amendment
                     The table of sections for chapter 87 of title 10, United States Code, is amended by inserting after the item relating to section 1748 the following new item:
                     
                        
                           1749. Updated Adaptive Acquisition Framework training.
                        
                        .
                     
                  
               
               
                  832.
                  PERFORMANCE INCENTIVES RELATED TO COMMERCIAL PRODUCT AND COMMERCIAL SERVICE DETERMINATIONS
                  Section 3456 of title 10, United States Code, is amended—
                  
                     (1)
                     in subsection (a)—
                     
                        (A)
                        in paragraph (1), by striking and at the end;
                     
                     
                        (B)
                        in paragraph (2), by striking the period at the end and inserting ; and; and
                     
                     
                        (C)
                        by adding at the end the following new paragraph:
                        
                           
                              (3)
                              establish and maintain performance incentives for contracting officers and program managers that request support described in subsection (b)(1)(A).
                           
                           ; and
                        
                     
                  
                  
                     (2)
                     in subsection (b)—
                     
                        (A)
                        in paragraph (1), by inserting or program manager after contracting officer; and
                     
                     
                        (B)
                        in paragraph (2), by inserting or program manager (as applicable) after contracting officer each place it appears.
                     
                  
               
               
                  833.
                  AUTONOMOUS UNMANNED AERIAL SYSTEM ACQUISITION PATHWAYS
                  
                     (a)
                     Acquisition pathways
                     The Secretary of Defense shall ensure that, to the maximum extent practicable, procurement programs for autonomous unmanned aerial systems use separate, parallel acquisition pathways for hardware and software related to such systems.
                  
                  
                     (b)
                     Additional requirements
                     The Secretary shall ensure that members of the acquisition workforce (as defined in section 101 of title 10, United States Code), with respect to the procurement of autonomous unmanned aerial systems under this section and to the maximum extent practicable—
                     
                        (1)
                        use the appropriate software acquisition pathway established under section 800 of the National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2020 (Public Law 116–92; 133 Stat. 1478; 10 U.S.C. 4571 note); and
                     
                     
                        (2)
                        include requirements for hardware components of such systems to be compliant with modular open system approach (as defined in section 4401 of title 10, United States Code).
                     
                  
                  
                     (c)
                     Report
                     Not later than 90 days after the date of the enactment of this Act, the Secretary of Defense shall submit to the congressional defense committees a report that includes—
                     
                        (1)
                        a description of plans to implement the separate, parallel acquisition pathways described in subsection (a); and
                     
                     
                        (2)
                        recommendations by the Secretary for any legislative action the Secretary determines necessary to implement this section.
                     
                  
                  
                     (d)
                     Applicability
                     This section shall apply with respect to contracts for the procurement of autonomous unmanned aerial systems or hardware or software related to such systems entered into on or after the date of the enactment of this section.
                  
               
               
                  834.
                  PILOT PROGRAM FOR PROGRAM MANAGEMENT OFFICES TO COMPETE IN REHABILITATING AT-RISK PROGRAMS
                  
                     (a)
                     Pilot program authorized
                     Not later than April 1, 2025, the Under Secretary of Defense for Acquisition and Sustainment, in consultation with the Secretaries of the military departments and the commanders of the combatant commands, shall establish a pilot program to test the feasibility and reliability of requiring program managers within the Department of Defense to manage at-risk programs selected under subsection (b).
                  
                  
                     (b)
                     Selection of at-risk programs
                     The Under Secretary, in consultation with the Secretaries of the military departments and the commanders of the combatant commands, shall select not less than 2 and not more than 3 at-risk programs for the pilot program established under this section.
                  
                  
                     (c)
                     Selection of program manager
                     Not later than 12 months after selecting at-risk programs under subsection (b), the Under Secretary shall select one program manager to assume management of each selected at-risk programs.
                  
                  
                     (d)
                     Existing personnel
                     Activities under the pilot program established under this section shall be carried out by existing personnel of the Department of Defense.
                  
                  
                     (e)
                     Evaluation metrics
                     Before selecting at-risk programs under subsection (b), the Under Secretary, in consultation with the Secretaries of the military departments and the commanders of the combatant commands, shall establish metrics to evaluate the effectiveness of the pilot program and the activities under the pilot program.
                  
                  
                     (f)
                     Implementation plan required
                     Not later than 180 days after selection of all program managers under subsection (c), the Under Secretary shall submit to the congressional defense committees a report that includes the following:
                     
                        (1)
                        The definition of an at-risk program for purposes of the pilot program.
                     
                     
                        (2)
                        The at-risk programs selected under subsection (b) and a description of the technology to be developed under such programs.
                     
                     
                        (3)
                        The metrics to be used in evaluating the effectiveness of the at-risk program.
                     
                  
                  
                     (g)
                     Final report
                     Not later than January 1, 2027, the Under Secretary shall submit to the congressional defense committees a report containing the following elements:
                     
                        (1)
                        Initial results of the pilot program, including challenges and successes.
                     
                     
                        (2)
                        A recommendation on whether the pilot program should be extended, expanded, or made permanent.
                     
                     
                        (3)
                        Recommendations for changes to applicable statutes, regulations, or policies to support the pilot program.
                     
                  
                  
                     (h)
                     Termination
                     The pilot program established under subsection (a), and all activities under such pilot program shall terminate not later than December 31, 2028.
                  
                  
                     (i)
                     Definitions
                     In this section:
                     
                        (1)
                        The term at-risk program means a Department of Defense program for the rapid fielding of technology that is determined by the Under Secretary to be to be at-risk due to failures or delays in reaching technical milestones.
                     
                     
                        (2)
                        The term Under Secretary means the Under Secretary of Defense for Acquisition and Sustainment of the Department of Defense.
                     
                  
               
            
            
               D
               Provisions Relating to Supply Chains and Domestic Sourcing
               
                  841.
                  ENHANCING REQUIREMENTS FOR INFORMATION RELATING TO SUPPLY CHAIN RISK
                  Section 3252 of title 10, United States Code, is amended—
                  
                     (1)
                     in subsection (b)—
                     
                        (A)
                        by amending paragraph (1) to read as follows:
                        
                           
                              (1)
                              consulting with procurement or other relevant officials of the covered agency;
                           
                           ;
                        
                     
                     
                        (B)
                        in paragraph (2), by striking with the concurrence of the Under Secretary of Defense for Acquisition and Sustainment,; and
                     
                     
                        (C)
                        in paragraph (3)—
                        
                           (i)
                           by amending subparagraph (A) to read as follows:
                           
                              
                                 (A)
                                 a summary of the risk assessment that serves as the basis for the written determination required by paragraph (2); and
                              
                              ;
                           
                        
                        
                           (ii)
                           by striking subparagraphs (B) and (C); and
                        
                        
                           (iii)
                           by redesignating subparagraph (D) as subparagraph (B);
                        
                     
                  
                  
                     (2)
                     by striking subsection (c); and
                  
                  
                     (3)
                     by redesignating subsections (d) and (e) as subsections (c) and (d), respectively.
                  
               
               
                  842.
                  AMENDMENT TO REQUIREMENT TO BUY STRATEGIC MATERIALS CRITICAL TO NATIONAL SECURITY FROM AMERICAN SOURCES
                  Section 4863 of title 10, United States Code, is amended—
                  
                     (1)
                     in subsection (d)(1)(B), by inserting qualifying before foreign; and
                  
                  
                     (2)
                     in subsection (m), by adding at the end the following new paragraph:
                     
                        
                           (11)
                           The term qualifying foreign government means the government of a country with which the United States has in effect a reciprocal defense procurement memorandum of understanding entered into pursuant to section 4851 of this title.
                        
                        .
                     
                  
               
               
                  843.
                  MODIFICATION TO MISCELLANEOUS LIMITATIONS ON THE PROCUREMENT OF GOODS OTHER THAN UNITED STATES GOODS
                  Section 4864(a)(2) of title 10, United States Code, is amended by adding at the end the following new subparagraph:
                  
                     
                        (G)
                        Diesel engines that operate at a maximum of not greater than 1200 revolutions per minute and are capable of generating a power output of greater than 3500 kilowatts.
                     
                     .
                  
               
               
                  844.
                  RISK MANAGEMENT FOR DEPARTMENT OF DEFENSE PHARMACEUTICAL SUPPLY CHAINS
                  Section 860(a) of the James M. Inhofe National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2023 (Public Law 117–263; 136 Stat. 2734; 10 U.S.C. 3241 note prec.) is amended—
                  
                     (1)
                     in paragraph (2), by inserting , temperature exposure throughout the supply chain process, before and final drug products; and
                  
                  
                     (2)
                     in paragraph (3)(A), by inserting , including temperature monitoring throughout the supply chain after of drugs.
                  
               
               
                  845.
                  INCLUSION OF RECYCLED MATERIALS IN DOMESTIC PREFERENCE FOR STRATEGIC AND CRITICAL MATERIALS
                  Section 848(b) of the William M. (Mac) Thornberry National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2021 (Public Law 116–283; 134 Stat. 3769; 10 U.S.C. 4811 note) is amended—
                  
                     (1)
                     in paragraph (1)—
                     
                        (A)
                        in subparagraph (B), by inserting after United States the following: , including processing of strategic and critical materials from recycled and reused minerals and metals,; and
                     
                     
                        (B)
                        in subparagraph (C), by inserting , including from recycled and reused minerals and metals, after critical materials; and
                     
                  
                  
                     (2)
                     in paragraph (2)—
                     
                        (A)
                        by redesignating subparagraph (D) as subparagraph (E);
                     
                     
                        (B)
                        in subparagraph (C), by striking ; and and inserting a semicolon; and
                     
                     
                        (C)
                        by inserting after subparagraph (C) the following new subparagraph:
                        
                           
                              (D)
                              the development of sources of supply for strategic and critical materials derived from recycled and reused minerals and metals; and
                           
                           .
                        
                     
                  
               
               
                  846.
                  REPORT RELATING TO CERTAIN DOMESTIC NONAVAILABILITY DETERMINATIONS
                  
                     (a)
                     Report on procurement of fire-resistant fiber blend fabric
                     Not later than 60 days after the date of the enactment of this Act, and two years after such date, the Secretary of Defense shall submit to the congressional defense committees a report that includes the following:
                     
                        (1)
                        Information on the availability of a domestic source for fire-resistant fiber blend fabric for the production of uniforms.
                     
                     
                        (2)
                        A description of any contract the Secretary or a Secretary of a military department has entered into for the procurement of fire-resistant fiber blend fabric from a domestic source in the three-year period preceding the date of such report.
                     
                  
                  
                     (b)
                     Domestic nonavailability determination report
                     Not later than 90 days after the date of the enactment of this Act, the Secretary of Defense shall submit to the Committees on Armed Services of the House of Representatives and the Senate a report that includes a description of the following:
                     
                        (1)
                        The process of making a domestic nonavailability determination pursuant to section 4862(c) of title 10, United States Code, including the average length of time to make such determination.
                     
                     
                        (2)
                        The process of reviewing such determinations, including factors that trigger the initiation of a review, and the timelines associated with each such review.
                     
                     
                        (3)
                        The process by which Secretary determines whether to terminate or modify such determination.
                     
                  
               
               
                  847.
                  SUPPLY CHAIN ILLUMINATION
                  Not later than 180 days after the date of the enactment of this Act, the Secretary of Defense shall develop and implement incentives to encourage each contractor of the Department of Defense to implement and use policies, procedures, and tools that allow such contractor to assess and monitor the entire supply chain of such contractor to identify potential vulnerabilities and security and noncompliance risks with respect to goods and services provided to the Department.
               
               
                  848.
                  STUDY ON USE OF OFF-THE-SHELF INFORMATION TECHNOLOGY PRODUCTS FROM FOREIGN ADVERSARY COUNTRIES
                  
                     (a)
                     In general
                     The Secretary of Defense shall carry out a study on the use by the Department of Defense of off-the-shelf information technology products that were manufactured, produced, or assembled by a covered company, including goods used by the Department that contain such an off-the-shelf information technology product.
                  
                  
                     (b)
                     Report
                     Not later than one year after the date of the enactment of this section, the Secretary of Defense shall submit to the Committees on Armed Services of the Senate and the House of Representatives a report on the findings of the study required by subsection (a).
                  
                  
                     (c)
                     Definitions
                     In this section:
                     
                        (1)
                        The term commercially available off-the-shelf item has the meaning given such term in section 104 of title 41, United States Code.
                     
                     
                        (2)
                        The term covered company means—
                        
                           (A)
                           an entity that is organized under the laws of or located in a foreign adversary country;
                        
                        
                           (B)
                           a parent, subsidiary, or affiliate of an entity described in subparagraph (A); and
                        
                        
                           (C)
                           an entity otherwise directly or indirectly owned by or subject to the control of an entity described in subparagraph (A) or (B), as determined by the Secretary of Defense.
                        
                     
                     
                        (3)
                        The term foreign adversary country has the meaning given the term covered nation in section 4872(d) of title 10, United States Code.
                     
                     
                        (4)
                        The term off-the-shelf information technology product means a commercially available off-the-shelf item that can process, store, or transmit digital data.
                     
                  
               
            
            
               E
               Industrial Base Matters
               
                  851.
                  ENTREPRENEURIAL INNOVATION PROJECT DESIGNATIONS
                  
                     (a)
                     In general
                     
                        (1)
                        Designating certain SBIR and STTR programs as Entrepreneurial Innovation Projects
                        
                           Chapter 303 of title 10, United States Code, is amended by inserting after section 4067 the following new section:
                        
                           
                              4068.
                              ENTREPRENEURIAL INNOVATION PROJECT DESIGNATIONS
                              
                                 (a)
                                 In general
                                 During the first fiscal year beginning after the date of the enactment of this section, and during each subsequent fiscal year, each Secretary concerned, in consultation with each chief of an armed force under the jurisdiction of the Secretary concerned, shall designate not less than five eligible programs as Entrepreneurial Innovation Projects.
                              
                              
                                 (b)
                                 Application
                                 An eligible program seeking designation as an Entrepreneurial Innovation Project under this section shall submit to the Secretary concerned an application at such time, in such manner, and containing such information as the Secretary concerned determines appropriate.
                              
                              
                                 (c)
                                 Designation criteria
                                 In making designations under subsection (a), the Secretary concerned shall consider—
                                 
                                    (1)
                                    the potential of the eligible program to—
                                    
                                       (A)
                                       advance the national security capabilities of the United States and, in the case of the Coast Guard, the law enforcement capabilities of the United States on the high seas and waters subject to the jurisdiction of the United States, including maritime domain awareness related to such law enforcement;
                                    
                                    
                                       (B)
                                       provide new technologies or processes, or new applications of existing technologies, that will enable new alternatives to existing programs; and
                                    
                                    
                                       (C)
                                       provide future cost savings;
                                    
                                 
                                 
                                    (2)
                                    whether an advisory panel has recommended the eligible program for designation; and
                                 
                                 
                                    (3)
                                    such other criteria that the Secretary concerned determines to be appropriate.
                                 
                              
                              
                                 (d)
                                 Designation benefits
                                 
                                    (1)
                                    Future-years defense program inclusion
                                    With respect to each designated program, the Secretary of Defense shall include in the next future-years defense program the estimated expenditures of such designated program. In the preceding sentence, the term next future-years defense program means the future-years defense program submitted to Congress under section 221 of this title after the date on which such designated program is designated under subsection (a).
                                 
                                 
                                    (2)
                                    Programming proposal
                                    Each designated program shall be included by the Secretary concerned under a separate heading in any programming proposals submitted to the Secretary of Defense.
                                 
                                 
                                    (3)
                                    PPBE component
                                    Each designated program shall be considered by the Secretary concerned as an integral part of the planning, programming, budgeting, and execution process of the Department of Defense.
                                 
                              
                              
                                 (e)
                                 Entrepreneurial Innovation Advisory panels
                                 
                                    (1)
                                    Establishment
                                    For each military department and the Coast Guard, the Secretary concerned shall establish an advisory panel that, starting in the first fiscal year beginning after the date of the enactment of this section, and in each subsequent fiscal year, shall identify and recommend to the Secretary concerned for designation under subsection (a) eligible programs based on the criteria described in subsection (c)(1).
                                 
                                 
                                    (2)
                                    Membership
                                    
                                       (A)
                                       Composition
                                       
                                          (i)
                                          In general
                                          Each advisory panel shall be composed of four members appointed by the Secretary concerned and one member appointed by the chief of the relevant armed force under the jurisdiction of the Secretary concerned.
                                       
                                       
                                          (ii)
                                          Secretary concerned appointments
                                          The Secretary concerned shall appoint members to the advisory panel as follows:
                                          
                                             (I)
                                             Three members who—
                                             
                                                (aa)
                                                have experience with private sector entrepreneurial innovation, including development and implementation of such innovations into well-established markets; and
                                             
                                             
                                                (bb)
                                                are not employed by the Federal Government.
                                             
                                          
                                          
                                             (II)
                                             One member who is in the Senior Executive Service and—
                                             
                                                (aa)
                                                in the case of the advisory panel for the Coast Guard, in the acquisition directorate established under section 1101 of title 14; and
                                             
                                             
                                                (bb)
                                                in all other cases, in the acquisition workforce (as defined in section 1705 of this title) of the relevant military department.
                                             
                                          
                                       
                                       
                                          (iii)
                                          Service chief appointment
                                          The chief of an armed force under the jurisdiction of the Secretary concerned shall appoint to the advisory panel one member who is a member of such armed forces.
                                       
                                    
                                    
                                       (B)
                                       Terms
                                       
                                          (i)
                                          Private sector members
                                          Members described in subparagraph (A)(ii)(I) shall serve for a term of three years, except that of the members first appointed—
                                          
                                             (I)
                                             one shall serve a term of one year;
                                          
                                          
                                             (II)
                                             one shall serve a term of two years; and
                                          
                                          
                                             (III)
                                             one shall serve a term of three years.
                                          
                                       
                                       
                                          (ii)
                                          Federal Government employees
                                          Members described in clause (ii)(II) or (iii) of subparagraph (A) shall serve for a term of two years, except that the first member appointed under subparagraph (A)(iii) shall serve for a term of one year.
                                       
                                    
                                    
                                       (C)
                                       Chair
                                       The chair for each advisory panel shall be as follows:
                                       
                                          (i)
                                          For the first year of operation of each such advisory panel, and every other year thereafter, the member appointed under subparagraph (A)(iii).
                                       
                                       
                                          (ii)
                                          For the second year of operation of each such advisory panel, and every other year thereafter, the member appointed under subparagraph (A)(ii)(II).
                                       
                                    
                                    
                                       (D)
                                       Vacancies
                                       A vacancy in an advisory panel shall be filled in the same manner as the original appointment.
                                    
                                    
                                       (E)
                                       Conflict of interest
                                       Members and staff of each advisory panel shall disclose to the relevant Secretary concerned, and such Secretary concerned shall mitigate to the extent practicable, any professional or organizational conflict of interest of such members or staff arising from service on the advisory panel.
                                    
                                    
                                       (F)
                                       Compensation
                                       
                                          (i)
                                          Private sector member compensation
                                          Except as provided in clause (ii), members of an advisory panel, and the support staff of such members, shall be compensated at a rate determined reasonable by the Secretary concerned and shall be reimbursed in accordance with section 5703 of title 5 for reasonable travel costs and expenses incurred in performing duties as members of an advisory panel.
                                       
                                       
                                          (ii)
                                          Prohibition on compensation of Federal employees
                                          Members of an advisory panel who are full-time officers or employees of the United States or Members of Congress may not receive additional pay, allowances, or benefits by reason of their service on an advisory panel.
                                       
                                    
                                 
                                 
                                    (3)
                                    Selection process
                                    
                                       (A)
                                       Initial selection
                                       Each advisory panel shall select not less than ten eligible programs that have submitted an application under subsection (b).
                                    
                                    
                                       (B)
                                       Program plans
                                       
                                          (i)
                                          In general
                                          Each eligible program selected under subparagraph (A) may submit to the advisory panel that selected such eligible program a program plan containing the five-year goals, execution plans, schedules, and funding needs of such eligible program.
                                       
                                       
                                          (ii)
                                          Support
                                          Each Secretary concerned shall, to the greatest extent practicable, provide eligible programs selected under subparagraph (A) with access to information to support the development of the program plans described in clause (i).
                                       
                                    
                                    
                                       (C)
                                       Final selection
                                       Each advisory panel shall recommend to the Secretary concerned for designation under subsection (a) not less than five eligible programs that submitted a program plan under subparagraph (B) to such advisory panel. If there are less than five such eligible programs, such advisory panel may recommend to the Secretary concerned for designation under subsection (a) less than five such eligible programs.
                                    
                                 
                                 
                                    (4)
                                    Administrative and technical support
                                    The Secretary concerned shall provide the relevant advisory panel with such administrative support, staff, and technical assistance as the Secretary concerned determines necessary for such advisory panel to carry out it duties.
                                 
                                 
                                    (5)
                                    Funding
                                    The Secretary of Defense may use amounts available from the Department of Defense Acquisition Workforce Development Account established under section 1705 of this title to support the activities of advisory panels.
                                 
                              
                              
                                 (f)
                                 Revocation of designation
                                 If the Secretary concerned determines that a designated program cannot reasonably meet the objectives of such designated program in the relevant programming proposal referred to in subsection (d)(2) or such objectives are irrelevant, such Secretary concerned may revoke the designation.
                              
                              
                                 (g)
                                 Report to Congress
                                 The Secretary of Defense shall submit to Congress an annual report describing each designated program and the progress each designated program has made toward achieving the objectives of the designated program.
                              
                              
                                 (h)
                                 Definitions
                                 In this section:
                                 
                                    (1)
                                    Advisory panel
                                    The term advisory panel means an advisory panel established under subsection (e)(1).
                                 
                                 
                                    (2)
                                    Designated program
                                    The term designated program means an eligible program that has been designated as an Entrepreneurial Innovation Project under this section.
                                 
                                 
                                    (3)
                                    Eligible program
                                    The term eligible program means work performed pursuant to a Phase III agreement (as such term is defined in section 9(r)(2) of the Small Business Act (15 U.S.C. 638(r)(2))).
                                 
                              
                           
                           .
                        
                     
                     
                        (2)
                        Target chapter table of sections
                        The table of sections at the beginning of chapter 303 of title 10, United States Code, is amended by inserting after the item related to section 4067 the following new item:
                        
                           
                              4068. Entrepreneurial Innovation Project designations.
                           
                           .
                        
                     
                  
                  
                     (b)
                     Establishment deadline
                     Not later than 120 days after the date of the enactment of this Act, each of the Secretaries concerned shall establish the advisory panels described in section 4068(e) of title 10, United States Code, as added by subsection (a).
                  
               
               
                  852.
                  MODIFICATION TO PROCUREMENT REQUIREMENTS RELATING TO RARE EARTH ELEMENTS AND STRATEGIC AND CRITICAL MATERIALS
                  
                     (a)
                     Modification regarding advanced batteries in disclosures concerning rare earth elements and strategic and critical materials by contractors of department of defense
                     Section 857 of the James M. Inhofe National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2023 (Public Law 117–263; 136 Stat. 2727; 10 U.S.C. 4811 note) is amended—
                     
                        (1)
                        in subsection (a)—
                        
                           (A)
                           in paragraph (1)(A)—
                           
                              (i)
                              by striking permanent magnet and inserting permanent magnet, or an advanced battery or advanced battery component (as those terms are defined, respectively, in section 40207(a) of the Infrastructure Investment and Jobs Act (42 U.S.C. 18741(a))),; and
                           
                           
                              (ii)
                              by striking of the magnet and inserting of the magnet, the advanced battery, or the advanced battery component (as applicable); and
                           
                        
                        
                           (B)
                           in paragraph (2), by amending to read as follows:
                           
                              
                                 (2)
                                 Elements
                                 A disclosure under paragraph (1) with respect to a system described in that paragraph shall include—
                                 
                                    (A)
                                    if the system includes a permanent magnet, an identification of the country or countries in which—
                                    
                                       (i)
                                       any rare earth elements and strategic and critical materials used in the magnet were mined;
                                    
                                    
                                       (ii)
                                       such elements and materials were refined into oxides;
                                    
                                    
                                       (iii)
                                       such elements and materials were made into metals and alloys; and
                                    
                                    
                                       (iv)
                                       the magnet was sintered or bonded and magnetized; and
                                    
                                 
                                 
                                    (B)
                                    if the system includes an advanced battery or an advanced battery component, an identification of the country or countries in which—
                                    
                                       (i)
                                       any strategic and critical materials that are covered minerals used in the battery or component were refined, processed, or reprocessed;
                                    
                                    
                                       (ii)
                                       any strategic and critical materials that are covered minerals and that were manufactured into the battery or component; and
                                    
                                    
                                       (iii)
                                       the battery cell, module, and pack of the battery or component were manufactured and assembled.
                                    
                                 
                              
                              ; and
                           
                        
                     
                     
                        (2)
                        by amending subsection (d) to read as follows:
                        
                           
                              (d)
                              Definitions
                              In this section:
                              
                                 (1)
                                 The term strategic and critical materials means materials designated as strategic and critical under section 3(a) of the Strategic and Critical Materials Stock Piling Act (50 U.S.C. 98b(a)).
                              
                              
                                 (2)
                                 The term covered minerals means lithium, nickel, cobalt, manganese, and graphite.
                              
                           
                           .
                        
                     
                  
                  
                     (b)
                     Technical amendments
                     Subsection (a) of such section 857 is further amended—
                     
                        (1)
                        in paragraph (3), by striking provides the system and inserting provides the system as described in paragraph (1); and
                     
                     
                        (2)
                        in paragraph (4)(C), by striking a senior acquisition executive and inserting a service acquisition executive.
                     
                  
               
               
                  853.
                  UPDATE AND EXTEND THE AUTHORIZATION OF DISTRIBUTION SUPPORT AND SERVICES FOR CONTRACTORS PROGRAM
                  
                     (a)
                     Permanent authorization and removal of limitation
                     Section 883 of the National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2017 (10 U.S.C. 4291 note prec.) is amended—
                     
                        (1)
                        in subsection (b)—
                        
                           (A)
                           by striking paragraph (2); and
                        
                        
                           (B)
                           by striking 
                                 Contracts.— through Any storage and inserting 
                                 Contracts.—Any storage; and 
                        
                     
                     
                        (2)
                        in subsection (g), by striking pilot program and all that follows through of this Act and inserting the following: program shall expire on December 31, 2039.
                     
                  
                  
                     (b)
                     Removal of pilot program references
                     Such section is further amended—
                     
                        (1)
                        in the section heading, by striking 
                              Pilot
                           ;
                     
                     
                        (2)
                        in subsection (a), by striking eight-year pilot; and
                     
                     
                        (3)
                        in subsections (b), (d), (e), and (f) by striking pilot each place it appears.
                     
                  
                  
                     (c)
                     Expansion
                     Such section is further amended—
                     
                        (1)
                        in the section heading, by striking 
                              Weapon systems
                           ;
                     
                     
                        (2)
                        in subsection (a), by striking for the production, modification, maintenance, or repair of a weapon system that is; and
                     
                     
                        (3)
                        in subsection (c), by striking described in subsection (a) are and inserting entered into by the Department include.
                     
                  
                  
                     (d)
                     Amendments to regulations
                     Subsection (d) of such section is further amended—
                     
                        (1)
                        in paragraph (1)—
                        
                           (A)
                           in the matter preceding subparagraph (A)—
                           
                              (i)
                              by striking the solicitation of offers for a contract described in subsection (a), and inserting notifying a contractor or potential contractor; and
                           
                           
                              (ii)
                              by striking are to and inserting may;
                           
                        
                        
                           (B)
                           in subparagraph (A), by striking to any contractor awarded the contract, but only; and
                        
                        
                           (C)
                           in subparagraph (B), by striking to be made; and
                        
                     
                     
                        (2)
                        in paragraph (6), by striking shall include and all that follows and inserting the following: shall include a requirement that any failure by the contractor to perform the supported contract is not excusable based on use of the support contract, and the contractor is to remain responsible for performance of the primary contract..
                     
                  
                  
                     (e)
                     Repeal of report requirements
                     Subsection (f) of such section is further amended—
                     
                        (1)
                        in paragraph (1), by striking Not later than and all that follows through the Secretary and inserting the following: Not later than five years after the date of the enactment of the National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2025, and every 5 years thereafter, the Secretary; and
                     
                     
                        (2)
                        in paragraph (2), by striking Not later than and all that follows through the Comptroller and inserting the following: Not later than five years after the date of the enactment of the National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2025, and every 5 years thereafter, the Comptroller.
                     
                  
               
               
                  854.
                  PROCUREMENT OF COVERED HEARING PROTECTION DEVICES
                  
                     (a)
                     In general
                     The Secretary of Defense, in coordination with the head of the Hearing Center of Excellence, may enter into one or more contracts to procure covered hearing protection devices for all members of the Armed Forces.
                  
                  
                     (b)
                     Prioritization
                     The Secretary shall prioritize the award of such a contract to an offeror that—
                     
                        (1)
                        is globally headquartered in the continental United States; and
                     
                     
                        (2)
                        is majority owned and operated by United States citizens.
                     
                  
                  
                     (c)
                     Definitions
                     In this section:
                     
                        (1)
                        The term covered hearing protection device means a completely in-canal active hearing protection device—
                        
                           (A)
                           that is a commercially available off-the-shelf item (as defined in section 104 of title 41, United States Code);
                        
                        
                           (B)
                           with a minimum noise reduction rating of 25 decibels and a maximum output not to exceed 80 decibels; and
                        
                        
                           (C)
                           that has been previously identified, tested, and qualified by the Hearing Center of Excellence.
                        
                     
                     
                        (2)
                        The term Hearing Center of Excellence means the center of excellence for hearing loss and auditory system injury established pursuant to section 721 of the Duncan Hunter National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2009 (Public Law 110–417).
                     
                  
               
               
                  855.
                  PROCUREMENT OF SECURE LITHIUM-ION BATTERIES
                  
                     (a)
                     In general
                     The Department of Defense is required to procure lithium-ion batteries produced in the United States or in allied nations, and cells that contain minimal Foreign Entity of Concern-sourced (Foreign Entity of Concern, derivative, successor, or affiliate) components or technology beginning in 2026 as specified in subsection (b). The percentages required in (b) apply to cells procured as end items or embedded within warfighting and support systems.
                  
                  
                     (b)
                     Percentages required
                     
                        (1)
                        Not less than 10 percent of the total battery procurement of the Department of Defense beginning in 2026.
                     
                     
                        (2)
                        Not less than 25 percent of the total battery procurement of the Department of Defense beginning in 2027.
                     
                     
                        (3)
                        Not less than 50 percent of the total battery procurement of the Department of Defense beginning in 2028.
                     
                     
                        (4)
                        Not less than 90 percent of the total battery procurement of the Department of Defense beginning in 2029.
                     
                  
                  
                     (c)
                     Sourcing and production
                     For purposes of this section, a battery or cell shall be considered compliant with the rule in subsection (a) if—
                     
                        (1)
                        the final product is assembled or manufactured in the United States, Canada, United Kingdom, Australia, New Zealand, South Korea, or Japan;
                     
                     
                        (2)
                        not less than 95 percent of the components of the cells by value originates from non-Foreign Entity of Concern sources (Foreign Entity of Concern, derivative, successor, or affiliate); and
                     
                     
                        (3)
                        the production of these batteries and cells does not require licensing of technology from a Foreign Entity of Concern or its derivative, successor, or affiliate.
                     
                  
                  
                     (d)
                     Waiver
                     If the batteries and cells cannot be produced which meet the requirements within subsections (b) and (c) at required quality, quantity, and reasonable cost, the Secretary of Defense may waive directed percentages in subsection (b).
                  
               
               
                  856.
                  IMPACT ASSESSMENT OF MANUFACTURING INNOVATION INSTITUTES ON THE DEFENSE INDUSTRIAL BASE
                  Not later than one year after the date of the enactment of this Act, the Secretary of Defense shall submit to the appropriate congressional committees an assessment of the impact of continued investment in Department of Defense sponsored manufacturing innovation institutes on the defense industrial base in the United States.
               
               
                  857.
                  REPORT ON COMPETITION AND EQUIPMENT REPAIR
                  
                     (a)
                     Sense of Congress
                     It is the sense of Congress that it is integral that the military be able to fix its own equipment, and that efforts deliberately designed to prevent the military end user from fixing equipment in the field harm our nation’s military readiness.
                  
                  
                     (b)
                     Report and plan
                     The Secretary of Defense shall submit to the Chair of the White House Competition Council the report required under clause (iii) of section 5(s) of Executive Order 14036 titled Executive Order on Promoting Competition in the American Economy.
                  
               
            
            
               F
               Small Business Matters
               
                  861.
                  DEPARTMENT OF DEFENSE CONTRACTING GOALS FOR SMALL BUSINESS CONCERNS OWNED AND CONTROLLED BY VETERANS
                  Chapter 287 of part V of title 10, United States Code, is amended by adding at the end the following new section:
                  
                     
                        3906.
                        SMALL BUSINESS CONCERNS OWNED AND CONTROLLED BY VETERANS: CONTRACTING GOALS
                        
                           (a)
                           Contracting goals
                           In order to increase contracting opportunities for small business concerns owned and controlled by veterans, the Secretary shall establish a goal for each fiscal year for participation in Department contracts (including subcontracts) by small business concerns owned and controlled by veterans who are not service-disabled veterans that is not less than the Governmentwide goal for that fiscal year for participation by small business concerns owned and controlled by service-disabled veterans under section 15(g)(1) of the Small Business Act (15 U.S.C. 644(g)(1)).
                        
                        
                           (b)
                           Sole source contracts for contracts above simplified acquisition threshold
                           For purposes of meeting the goals under subsection (a) and in accordance with this section, a contracting officer may award a contract to a small business concern owned and controlled by veterans using procedures other than competitive procedures if—
                           
                              (1)
                              such concern is determined to be a responsible source with respect to performance of such contract opportunity;
                           
                           
                              (2)
                              the anticipated award price of the contract (including options) will not exceed the amounts established in section 36(c)(2) of the Small Business Act (15 U.S.C. 657f(c)(2)); and
                           
                           
                              (3)
                              in the estimation of the contracting officer, the contract award can be made at a fair and reasonable price that offers best value to the United States. 
                           
                        
                        
                           (c)
                           Use of restricted competition
                           Except as provided in subsection (b), for purposes of meeting the goals under subsection (a) and in accordance with this section, a contracting officer may award contracts on the basis of competition restricted to small business concerns owned and controlled by veterans if the contracting officer has a reasonable expectation that two or more small business concerns owned and controlled by veterans will submit offers and that the award can be made at a fair and reasonable price that offers best value to the United States.
                        
                        
                           (d)
                           Eligibility of small business concerns
                           A small business concern may be awarded a contract under this section only if the small business concern and the veteran owner of the small business concern are listed in the database described in section 36(f)(1) of the Small Business Act (15 U.S.C. 657f(f)(1)).
                        
                        
                           (e)
                           Small Business Act definitions
                           In this section, the terms service-disabled veteran, small business concern, small business concern owned and controlled by veterans, and small business concern owned and controlled by service-disabled veterans have the meanings given, respectively, under section 3 of the Small Business Act (15 U.S.C. 632).
                        
                     
                     .
                  
               
               
                  862.
                  PARTICIPATION OF MILITARY RESEARCH AND EDUCATIONAL INSTITUTIONS IN THE STTR PROGRAM
                  
                     (a)
                     Definition of research institution
                     
                     Section 9(e)(8) of the Small Business Act (15 U.S.C. 638(e)(8)) is amended by inserting after thereto) the following: , as well as any undergraduate, graduate, or postgraduate degree-granting military research or educational institution established under title 10, United States Code.
                  
                  
                     (b)
                     Technical amendments
                     Such section is further amended—
                     
                        (1)
                        by striking section 4(5) and inserting section 4(3);
                     
                     
                        (2)
                        by inserting (15 U.S.C. 3703(3)) after of 1980; and
                     
                     
                        (3)
                        by striking section 35(c)(1) of the Office of Federal Procurement Policy Act and inserting section 1303(a) of title 41, United States Code.
                     
                  
               
               
                  863.
                  TRAINING ON INCREASING FEDERAL CONTRACT AWARDS TO SMALL BUSINESS CONCERNS OWNED AND CONTROLLED BY SERVICE-DISABLED VETERANS
                  
                     (a)
                     In general
                     If the Secretary of Defense fails to meet the goal for participation by small business concerns owned and controlled by service-disabled veterans established in section 15(g)(1)(A)(ii) of the Small Business Act (15 U.S.C. 644(g)(1)(A)(ii)) for the Department of Defense for a fiscal year, the Secretary shall, in consultation with the head of the Office of Veterans Business Development of the Small Business Administration, provide training to the relevant acquisition personnel on how to increase the number of contracts awarded to small business concerns owned and controlled by service-disabled veterans (as defined in section 3(q) of such Act (15 U.S.C. 632(q)).
                  
                  
                     (b)
                     Timing
                     The training described in subsection (a) shall be delivered to the relevant acquisition personnel not later than 90 days after the date on which the Secretary of Defense has failed to meet the goal described in such subsection.
                  
               
               
                  864.
                  ACCESSIBILITY AND CLARITY IN COVERED NOTICES FOR SMALL BUSINESS CONCERNS
                  
                     (a)
                     In general
                     Each covered notice shall be written—
                     
                        (1)
                        in a manner that is clear, concise, and accessible to a small business concern (as defined under section 3 of the Small Business Act (15 10 U.S.C. 632)); and
                     
                     
                        (2)
                        in a manner consistent, to the extent practicable, with the Federal plain language guidelines established pursuant to the Plain Writing Act of 2010 (5 U.S.C. 301 note).
                     
                  
                  
                     (b)
                     Inclusion of key words in covered notices
                     Each covered notice shall, to the maximum extent practicable, include key words in the description of the covered notice such that a small business concern seeking contract opportunities using the single Government-wide point of entry described under section 1708 of title 41, United States Code, can easily identify and understand such covered notice.
                  
                  
                     (c)
                     Rulemaking
                     Not later than 90 days after the date of the enactment of this Act, the Secretary of Defense shall issue rules to carry out this section.
                  
                  
                     (d)
                     Covered notice defined
                     In this section, the term covered notice means a notice pertaining to small business concerns published by the Secretary of Defense or a Secretary of a military department on the single Government-wide point of entry described under section 1708 of title 41, United States Code.
                  
               
               
                  865.
                  EXPANSION OF PILOT PROGRAM FOR ACCESS TO SHARED CLASSIFIED COMMERCIAL INFRASTRUCTURE
                  
                     (a)
                     Pilot program expansion
                     Not later than 180 days after the date of enactment of this Act, the Secretary of Defense shall, under an existing pilot program of the Department of Defense described in subsection (b)(1), establish not fewer than six new locations at which small business concerns, contractors of the Department of Defense, and institutions of higher education may access shared commercial classified infrastructure to—
                     
                        (1)
                        expand the access of small business concerns, contractors of the Department of Defense, and institutions of higher education to secret/collateral accredited facilities and sensitive compartmented information facilities for the purpose of providing such concerns, contractors, and institutions, as contractors of the Department, with a facility to securely perform work under contracts involving access to classified information;
                     
                     
                        (2)
                        increase opportunities for small businesses concerns, contractors of the Department of Defense, and institutions of higher education that have been issued a facility clearance to apply for funding from the Government;
                     
                     
                        (3)
                        align the locations of access to shared commercial classified infrastructure under such pilot program under which the Secretary carries out this subsection with the existing facilities of the innovation organizations of the Department of Defense and central locations of the national security innovation base; and
                     
                     
                        (4)
                        identify and address legislative and policy barriers preventing broader use of shared classified commercial infrastructure by small business concerns, contractors of the Department of Defense, and institutions of higher education, including access to required information technology systems, accreditation secret/collateral accredited facilities and sensitive compartmented information facilities, and timelines for such accreditation and use by such concerns, contractors, and institutions.
                     
                  
                  
                     (b)
                     Requirements
                     
                        (1)
                        Existing pilot program
                        The pilot program described in this paragraph is a pilot program of the Department of Defense under which there have been establishment of locations at which small business concerns, contractors of the Department of Defense, and institutions of higher education may access shared commercial classified infrastructure.
                     
                     
                        (2)
                        Access improvements
                        In carrying out subsection (a), the Secretary of Defense shall—
                        
                           (A)
                           issue policies governing and guidance on the process and timelines for establishing locations shared commercial classified infrastructure under the pilot program described in paragraph (1), including how such locations may obtain facility clearances and access to relevant classified networks of the Department of Defense; and
                        
                        
                           (B)
                           update and streamline the processes of the Department of Defense for approving agreements for the shared or joint use of commercial classified infrastructure to facilitate the access of small business concerns, contractors of the Department of Defense, and institutions of higher education to classified environments.
                        
                     
                  
                  
                     (c)
                     Annual report
                     Not later than 270 days after the date on which the Secretary of Defense establishes the locations required under subsection (a), and annually thereafter until 2028, the Secretary shall submit to the congressional defense committees a report on the establishment of such locations under this section, including—
                     
                        (1)
                        a list of all active and open requests for the accreditation of facilities to process classified information made pursuant to the pilot program under which the Secretary established such locations made by an entity described in subsection (a)(1), including the date on which such entity properly submitted such request to the Department and to the relevant facility accreditation agency;
                     
                     
                        (2)
                        metrics on the use of the locations established under such pilot program at which small business concerns, contractors of the Department of Defense, and institutions of higher education may access shared commercial classified infrastructure established, including the number of small businesses concerns, institutions of higher education, contractors of the Department of Defense, and other entities that have accessed shared commercial classified infrastructure at such locations;
                     
                     
                        (3)
                        any actions taken by the Secretary of Defense to update and streamline the processes of the Department of Defense described in subsection (b)(2)(B); and
                     
                     
                        (4)
                        any plans for the establishment of additional such locations under such pilot program pilot program locations that will align with existing innovation organizations of the Department of Defense, geographic areas with limited facilities at which classified information may be accessed, and central locations of the national security innovation base.
                     
                  
                  
                     (d)
                     Definitions
                     In this section—
                     
                        (1)
                        the term small business concern has the meaning given such term under section 3 of the Small Business Act (15 U.S.C. 632);
                     
                     
                        (2)
                        the term institution of higher education has the meaning given such term in section 101(a) of the Higher Education Act of 1965 (20 U.S.C. 1001(a)); and
                     
                     
                        (3)
                        the term shared commercial classified infrastructure means fully managed, shared, infrastructure for accessing classified information and associated services that are operated by entity other than the Department of Defense for the benefit of employees of the Government and employees of contractors of the Department authorized to access such information and who are located in geographic areas with limited facilities at which such individuals may access such information. 
                     
                  
               
               
                  866.
                  MEMORANDUM OF UNDERSTANDING RELATING TO DEPARTMENT OF DEFENSE CRITICAL TECHNOLOGY AREA OPPORTUNITIES FOR SMALL BUSINESS CONCERNS
                  
                     (a)
                     In General
                     The Secretary of Defense and the Administrator of the Small Business Administration (in this section referred to as the covered officials) shall—
                     
                        (1)
                        increase information sharing on opportunities available to small business concerns for potential contract awards by the Department of Defense for critical technology areas; and
                     
                     
                        (2)
                        improve awareness of small business concerns with respect to critical technology area opportunities within the Department of Defense.
                     
                  
                  
                     (b)
                     Memorandum of Understanding or Agreement
                     The covered officials shall carry out and coordinate the activities described in subsection (a) by entering into one or more memoranda or agreements, as jointly determined by the covered officials.
                  
                  
                     (c)
                     Report
                     Not later than one year after the date on which the covered officials enter into the first memorandum or agreement under subsection (b), and annually thereafter, the covered officials shall submit to Congress a report detailing the effects of—
                     
                        (1)
                        such memorandum or agreement; and
                     
                     
                        (2)
                        any other memorandum or agreement entered into in the previous twelve months.
                     
                  
                  
                     (d)
                     Small business concern defined
                     In this section, the term small business concern has the meaning given such term under section 3 of the Small Business Act (15 U.S.C. 632).
                  
               
               
                  867.
                  COLLABORATE MEMORANDUM OF UNDERSTANDING REPORT
                  
                     (a)
                     In general
                     Not later than 90 days after the date of the enactment of this Act, the Assistant Administrator for the Office of Entrepreneurial Development of the Small Business Administration and the Director of Small Business Programs of the Department of Defense shall submit to the appropriate congressional committees a report on the memorandum of understanding (referred to in this section as the MOU) between the Small Business Administration and the Department of Defense entered into on December 2, 2022. Such report shall include the following:
                     
                        (1)
                        The status of activities specified in clause (1) of part III of the MOU.
                     
                     
                        (2)
                        A summary of the lessons learned specified in clause (1)(b) of part III of the MOU.
                     
                     
                        (3)
                        An analysis of the activities and efficacy of those activities specified in clause (3) of part III of the MOU, including any nexus related to small business certifications and use of contracting authorities at the Department of Defense.
                     
                     
                        (4)
                        A description of the training and events specified in clause (5) of part III of the MOU.
                     
                     
                        (5)
                        A summary of how the MOU prevents small business concerns from receiving duplicative assistance or contradictory or confusing information from covered centers.
                     
                     
                        (6)
                        A discussion of the sufficiency of the MOU to achieve the goals to promote entrepreneurship and small business development nationally and locally and maximize participation in government contracting.
                     
                     
                        (7)
                        Any recommended changes to existing laws or regulations that would enhance the Parties’ ability to reach the MOU’s goals.
                     
                     
                        (8)
                        Any additional information the Parties deem necessary.
                     
                  
                  
                     (b)
                     Appropriate congressional committees defined
                     In this section, the term appropriate congressional committees means—
                     
                        (1)
                        the Committees on Armed Services and Small Business of the House of Representatives; and
                     
                     
                        (2)
                        the Committees on Armed Services and Small Business and Entrepreneurship of the Senate.
                     
                  
               
               
                  868.
                  MODIFICATION TO INITIATIVES TO SUPPORT SMALL BUSINESSES IN THE NATIONAL TECHNOLOGY AND INDUSTRIAL BASE
                  Section 861 of William M. (Mac) Thornberry National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2021 (10 U.S.C. 4901 note; Public Law 116–283; 134 Stat. 3775) is amended—
                  
                     (1)
                     in subsection (b)—
                     
                        (A)
                        in paragraph (1)—
                        
                           (i)
                           by inserting the Secretary of Defense before shall update; and 
                        
                        
                           (ii)
                           by inserting , the Committee on Small Business of the House of Representatives, and the Committee on Small Business and Entrepreneurship of the Senate after congressional defense committees; and
                        
                     
                     
                        (B)
                        in paragraph (2)(A)—
                        
                           (i)
                           by striking biennially and inserting annually; and
                        
                        
                           (ii)
                           by inserting , the Committee on Small Business of the House of Representatives, and the Committee on Small Business and Entrepreneurship of the Senate after congressional defense committees; and
                        
                     
                  
                  
                     (2)
                     in subsection (c), by adding at the end the following new paragraphs:
                     
                        
                           (3)
                           Annual report
                           Not later than October 1, 2025, and annually thereafter, the Assistant Secretary of Defense for Industrial Base Policy shall submit to the congressional defense committees, the Committee on Small Business of the House of Representatives, and the Committee on Small Business and Entrepreneurship of the Senate a report that includes the following for the year covered by the report:
                           
                              (A)
                              A description of activities undertaken pursuant to this section.
                           
                           
                              (B)
                              An analysis of effect on the participation of small businesses in Department of Defense contracts as a result of implementation of the small business strategy required under section 4901 of title 10, United States Code.
                           
                           
                              (C)
                              A description of efforts by the Secretary of Defense to increase participation of small businesses in Department of Defense contracts through the small business strategy.
                           
                        
                        
                           (4)
                           Small business strategy report
                           Beginning with the report due October 1, 2029, and every four years thereafter, the Assistant Secretary of Defense for Industrial Base Policy shall submit to the congressional defense committees, the Committee on Small Business of the House of Representatives, and the Committee on Small Business and Entrepreneurship of the Senate a report on overall efficacy of the small business strategy required under such section 4901, including trends and data analysis for the period covered by the report relating to implementation and outcomes of the strategy. 
                        
                        .
                     
                  
               
               
                  869.
                  BOOTS TO BUSINESS PROGRAM
                  Section 32 of the Small Business Act (15 U.S.C. 657b) is amended by adding at the end the following:
                  
                     
                        (h)
                        Boots to Business Program
                        
                           (1)
                           Covered individual defined
                           In this subsection, the term covered individual means—
                           
                              (A)
                              a member of the Armed Forces, including the National Guard or Reserves;
                           
                           
                              (B)
                              an individual who is participating in the Transition Assistance Program established under section 1144 of title 10, United States Code;
                           
                           
                              (C)
                              an individual who—
                              
                                 (i)
                                 served on active duty in any branch of the Armed Forces, including the National Guard or Reserves; and
                              
                              
                                 (ii)
                                 was discharged or released from such service under conditions other than dishonorable; and
                              
                           
                           
                              (D)
                              a spouse or dependent of an individual described in subparagraph (A), (B), or (C).
                           
                        
                        
                           (2)
                           Establishment
                           During the period beginning on the date of enactment of this subsection and ending on September 30, 2028, the Administrator shall carry out a program to be known as the Boots to Business Program to provide entrepreneurship training to covered individuals.
                        
                        
                           (3)
                           Goals
                           The goals of the Boots to Business Program are to—
                           
                              (A)
                              provide assistance and in-depth training to covered individuals interested in business ownership; and
                           
                           
                              (B)
                              provide covered individuals with the tools, skills, and knowledge necessary to identify a business opportunity, draft a business plan, identify sources of capital, connect with local resources for small business concerns, and start up a small business concern.
                           
                        
                        
                           (4)
                           Program components
                           
                              (A)
                              In general
                              The Boots to Business Program may include—
                              
                                 (i)
                                 a presentation providing exposure to the considerations involved in self-employment and ownership of a small business concern;
                              
                              
                                 (ii)
                                 an online, self-study course focused on the basic skills of entrepreneurship, the language of business, and the considerations involved in self-employment and ownership of a small business concern;
                              
                              
                                 (iii)
                                 an in-person classroom instruction component providing an introduction to the foundations of self employment and ownership of a small business concern; and
                              
                              
                                 (iv)
                                 in-depth training delivered through online instruction, including an online course that leads to the creation of a business plan.
                              
                           
                           
                              (B)
                              Collaboration
                              The Administrator may—
                              
                                 (i)
                                 collaborate with public and private entities to develop course curricula for the Boots to Business Program; and
                              
                              
                                 (ii)
                                 modify program components in coordination with entities participating in a Warriors in Transition program, as defined in section 738(e) of the National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2013 (10 U.S.C. 1071 note).
                              
                           
                           
                              (C)
                              Use of resource partners and district offices
                              
                                 (i)
                                 In general
                                 The Administrator shall—
                                 
                                    (I)
                                    ensure that Veteran Business Outreach Centers regularly participate, on a nationwide basis, in the Boots to Business Program; and
                                 
                                 
                                    (II)
                                    to the maximum extent practicable, use district offices of the Administration and a variety of other resource partners and entities in administering the Boots to Business Program.
                                 
                              
                              
                                 (ii)
                                 Grant authority
                                 In carrying out clause (i), the Administrator may make grants, subject to the availability of appropriations in advance, to Veteran Business Outreach Centers, other resource partners, or other entities to carry out components of the Boots to Business Program.
                              
                           
                           
                              (D)
                              Availability to Department of Defense and the Department of Labor
                              The Administrator shall make available to the Secretary of Defense and the Secretary of Labor information regarding the Boots to Business Program, including all course materials and outreach materials related to the Boots to Business Program, for inclusion on the websites of the Department of Defense and the Department of Labor relating to the Transition Assistance Program, in the Transition Assistance Program manual, and in other relevant materials available for distribution from the Secretary of Defense and the Secretary of Labor.
                           
                           
                              (E)
                              Availability to Department of Veterans Affairs
                              In consultation with the Secretary of Veterans Affairs, the Administrator shall make available for distribution and display on the website of the Department of Veterans Affairs and at local facilities of the Department of Veterans Affairs outreach materials regarding the Boots to Business Program, which shall, at a minimum—
                              
                                 (i)
                                 describe the Boots to Business Program and the services provided; and
                              
                              
                                 (ii)
                                 include eligibility requirements for participating in the Boots to Business Program.
                              
                           
                           
                              (F)
                              Availability to other participating agencies
                              The Administrator shall ensure information regarding the Boots to Business program, including all course materials and outreach materials related to the Boots to Business Program, is made available to other participating agencies in the Transition Assistance Program and upon request of other agencies. 
                           
                        
                        
                           (5)
                           Competitive bidding procedures
                           The Administration shall use relevant competitive bidding procedures with respect to any contract or cooperative agreement executed by the Administration under the Boots to Business Program. 
                        
                        
                           (6)
                           Publication of notice of funding opportunity
                           Not later than 30 days before the deadline for submitting applications for any funding opportunity under the Boots to Business Program, the Administration shall publish a notice of the funding opportunity. 
                        
                        
                           (7)
                           Report
                           Not later than 180 days after the date of enactment of this subsection, and not less frequently than annually thereafter, the Administrator shall submit to the Committee on Small Business and Entrepreneurship of the Senate and the Committee on Small Business of the House of Representatives a report on the performance and effectiveness of the Boots to Business Program, which—
                           
                              (A)
                              may be included as part of another report submitted to such committees by the Administrator related to the Office of Veterans Business Development; and
                           
                           
                              (B)
                              shall summarize available information relating to—
                              
                                 (i)
                                 grants awarded under paragraph (4)(C);
                              
                              
                                 (ii)
                                 the total cost of the Boots to Business Program;
                              
                              
                                 (iii)
                                 the number of program participants using each component of the Boots to Business Program;
                              
                              
                                 (iv)
                                 the completion rates for each component of the Boots to Business Program;
                              
                              
                                 (v)
                                 to the extent possible—
                                 
                                    (I)
                                    the demographics of program participants, to include gender, age, race, ethnicity, and relationship to military;
                                 
                                 
                                    (II)
                                    the number of program participants that connect with a district office of the Administration, a Veteran Business Outreach Center, or another resource partner of the Administration;
                                 
                                 
                                    (III)
                                    the number of program participants that start a small business concern;
                                 
                                 
                                    (IV)
                                    the results of the Boots to Business and Boots to Business Reboot course quality surveys conducted by the Office of Veterans Business Development before and after attending each of those courses, including a summary of any comments received from program participants;
                                 
                                 
                                    (V)
                                    the results of the Boots to Business Program outcome surveys conducted by the Office of Veterans Business Development, including a summary of any comments received from program participants; and
                                 
                                 
                                    (VI)
                                    the results of other germane participant satisfaction surveys;
                                 
                              
                           
                           
                              (C)
                              an evaluation of the overall effectiveness of the Boots to Business Program based on each geographic region covered by the Administration during the most recent fiscal year;
                           
                           
                              (D)
                              an assessment of additional performance outcome measures for the Boots to Business Program, as identified by the Administrator;
                           
                           
                              (E)
                              any recommendations of the Administrator for improvement of the Boots to Business Program, which may include expansion of the types of individuals who are covered individuals;
                           
                           
                              (F)
                              an explanation of how the Boots to Business Program has been integrated with other transition programs and related resources of the Administration and other Federal agencies; and
                           
                           
                              (G)
                              any additional information the Administrator determines necessary.
                           
                        
                     
                     .
                  
               
               
                  869A.
                  REPORT ON BUNDLED CONTRACTS OF THE DEPARTMENT OF DEFENSE
                  Not later than 180 days after the date of the enactment of this Act, the Secretary of Defense shall submit to the congressional defense committees a report on—
                  
                     (1)
                     the effects of awarding bundled contracts (as defined in section 3 of the Small Business Act (15 U.S.C. 632)) on the Department of Defense and small business concerns (as defined under such section); and
                  
                  
                     (2)
                     the potential effects of reducing the number of bundled contracts awarded.
                  
               
            
            
               G
               Other Matters
               
                  871.
                  CLARIFICATION OF WAIVER AUTHORITY FOR ORGANIZATIONAL AND CONSULTANT CONFLICTS OF INTEREST
                  Section 9.503 of the Federal Acquisition Regulation shall be revised to require that—
                  
                     (1)
                      a request for a waiver under such section include a written justification for such waiver; and
                  
                  
                     (2)
                     the head of a Federal agency may not delegate such waiver authority below the level of the deputy head of such agency.
                  
               
               
                  872.
                  PILOT PROGRAM ON PAYMENT OF COSTS FOR DENIED GOVERNMENT ACCOUNTABILITY OFFICE BID PROTESTS
                  
                     (a)
                     Pilot program required
                     The Secretary of Defense shall carry out a pilot program to determine the effectiveness of requiring a contractor to reimburse the Department of Defense for costs incurred in processing covered protests.
                  
                  
                     (b)
                     Duration
                     The pilot program under subsection (a) shall—
                     
                        (1)
                        begin on the date that is two years after the date of the enactment of this Act; and
                     
                     
                        (2)
                        end on the date that is five years after the date of the enactment of this Act.
                     
                  
                  
                     (c)
                     Report
                     Not later than 90 days after the date on which the pilot program under subsection (a) ends, the Secretary shall submit to the Committees on Armed Services of the House of Representatives and the Senate a report assessing the feasibility of making permanent such pilot program.
                  
                  
                     (d)
                     Definitions
                     In this section:
                     
                        (1)
                        The term covered protest means a final bid protest—
                        
                           (A)
                           dated during the period beginning on October 1, 2026, and ending on September 30, 2029; and
                        
                        
                           (B)
                           filed by a party with revenues in excess of $250,000,000 (based on fiscal year 2024 constant dollars) during the fiscal year immediately preceding the fiscal year in which such party filed such bid protest.
                        
                     
                     
                        (2)
                        The term final bid protest means a bid protest that was denied in an opinion issued by the Government Accountability Office and such denial—
                        
                           (A)
                           has not been appealed and is no longer appealable because the time for taking an appeal has expired; or
                        
                        
                           (B)
                           has been appealed and the appeals process for which is completed.
                        
                     
                  
               
               
                  873.
                  PROMULGATE GUIDANCE RELATING TO CERTAIN DEPARTMENT OF DEFENSE CONTRACTS
                  Not later than January 31, 2025, the Secretary of Defense shall issue guidance on the governance and oversight of the contracts of the Department of Defense that support or enable sensitive activities.
               
               
                  874.
                  FRAMEWORK FOR THE EFFICIENT AND SECURE PROCUREMENT OF FOOD SERVICE PRODUCTS
                  
                     (a)
                     Sense of Congress
                     It is the sense of Congress that—
                     
                        (1)
                        disposable food service products procured for use by the Department of Defense, whether for use within or outside the continental United States, should be produced in the United States, compostable, and minimize the amount of products acquired from sources in strategic competitors identified in the most recent National Defense Strategy submitted under section 113(g) of title 10, United States Code; and
                     
                     
                        (2)
                        any deviations from the aim identified in paragraph (1) should receive the highest levels of scrutiny by the Secretary of Defense.
                     
                  
                  
                     (b)
                     Report
                     Not later than 90 days after the date of enactment of this Act, the Secretary of Defense shall submit to the congressional defense committees a report that includes—
                     
                        (1)
                        the timeline required to implement a requirement, including amending regulations, for the Department of Defense that all disposable food service products acquired for the Department of Defense are produced in the United States, compostable, and minimize the amount of products acquired from sources in strategic competitors identified in the most recent National Defense Strategy submitted under section 113(g) of title 10, United States Code;
                     
                     
                        (2)
                        a list of existing laws and regulations establishing domestic acquisition preferences or requirements that may be affected by the requirement described in paragraph (1), and recommendations to resolve any conflicts between such laws and regulations and the requirement described in paragraph (1);
                     
                     
                        (3)
                        a process for waiving the requirement described in paragraph (1) on a case-by-case basis, including a framework for delegating such waiver authority below the Office of the Secretary of Defense;
                     
                     
                        (4)
                        recommendations for the dollar values of contracts or other agreements at which the requirement described in paragraph (1) and the waiver described in paragraph (3), respectively, should apply;
                     
                     
                        (5)
                        an assessment of the infrastructure available in the Department of Defense to implement the requirement described in paragraph (1), including an assessment of the cost and a timeline for the development of the infrastructure that would be required to implement such requirement; and
                     
                     
                        (6)
                        an assessment of the availability of food services products that are compostable.
                     
                  
                  
                     (c)
                     Definitions
                     In this section—
                     
                        (1)
                        the term disposable food service product means a food service product designed to be disposed after a single use;
                     
                     
                        (2)
                        the term food service product means a product for serving or transporting prepared foods or beverages;
                     
                     
                        (3)
                        the term produced in the United States has the meaning given such term in section 70912 of the Build America, Buy America Act (Public Law 117–58; 41 U.S.C. 8301 note); and
                     
                     
                        (4)
                        the term compostable, with respect to a product, means that such product is composed of organic materials and which will decompose into or otherwise become part of usable compost in a safe and timely manner in an appropriate composting facility.
                     
                  
               
               
                  875.
                  PLAN FOR IDENTIFYING AND REPLACING SYRINGES OF CONCERN
                  
                     (a)
                     In general
                     Not later than 180 days after the date of the enactment of this Act, the Secretary of Defense, in coordination with the Director of the Defense Logistics Agency and the Director of the Defense Health Agency, shall develop and implement a plan to review all medical syringes in the inventories and stockpiles of the Department of Defense and current and planned acquisitions of the Department to—
                     
                        (1)
                        identify medical syringes that have been subject to a Food and Drug Administration Import Alert or meet the conditions of a Food and Drug Administration Safety Communication; and
                     
                     
                        (2)
                        replace such medical syringes with medical syringes produced domestically or produced in partners or allies of the United States.
                     
                  
                  
                     (b)
                     Coordinated plan contents
                     The Secretary of Defense shall include in the plan required under subsection (a) the following:
                     
                        (1)
                        An identification of any medical syringes in the inventories and stockpiles of the Department of Defense and which the Department is acquiring or plans to acquire that have been subject to a Food and Drug Administration Import Alert or meet the conditions of a Food and Drug Administration Safety Communication made in the past five years.
                     
                     
                        (2)
                        A process for the Department of Defense to replace the medical syringes described in paragraph (1) that are in the inventories and stockpiles of the Department with those that—
                        
                           (A)
                           are produced domestically or in partners or allies of the United States;
                        
                        
                           (B)
                           are not subject to an Import Alert described in such paragraph; and
                        
                        
                           (C)
                           do not meet the conditions of a Safety Communication described in such paragraph.
                        
                     
                     
                        (3)
                        A process for the Department of Defense to cease the acquisition of medical syringes described in paragraph (1) and ensure that the Department acquires only medical syringes that—
                        
                           (A)
                           are produced domestically or in partners or allies of the United States;
                        
                        
                           (B)
                           are not subject to an Import Alert described in such paragraph; and
                        
                        
                           (C)
                           do not meet the conditions of a Safety Communication described in such paragraph.
                        
                     
                     
                        (4)
                        A process enabling the Department of Defense to—
                        
                           (A)
                           track Food and Drug Administration Import Alerts and Safety Communications regarding medical syringes;
                        
                        
                           (B)
                           review the inventories, stockpiles, and current and planned acquisitions of the Department for medical syringes that are subject to such Import Alerts or that meet the conditions of such Safety Communications; and
                        
                        
                           (C)
                           replace such medical syringes with medical syringes that are produced domestically or produced in partners or allies of the United States.
                        
                     
                  
                  
                     (c)
                     Report
                     Upon developing the plan required by subsection (a), the Secretary of Defense shall submit to the Committees on Armed Services of the Senate and the House of Representatives a report describing such plan, including—
                     
                        (1)
                        the number of medical syringes, if any, in the inventories and stockpiles of the Department of Defense that have been subject to a Food and Drug Administration Import Alert or meet the conditions of a Food and Drug Administration Safety Communication made in the past five years;
                     
                     
                        (2)
                        a description of any planned or ongoing acquisition by the Department of medical syringes that have been subject to a Food and Drug Administration Import Alert or meet the conditions of a Food and Drug Administration Safety Communication made in the past five years, including acquisitions with respect to which contracts have not yet been awarded and existing agreements under which such syringes may be acquired for the Department;
                     
                     
                        (3)
                        for medical syringes described in paragraph (1) or with respect to which the Department is carrying out an acquisition described in paragraph (2), the product name, manufacturer, and country of origin; and
                     
                     
                        (4)
                        an explanation of the process described in subsection (b)(4) that will be implemented under such plan.
                     
                  
               
               
                  876.
                  REPORT ON DOMESTIC SITES FOR RARE EARTH ELEMENT MINING
                  Not later than 180 days after the date of the enactment of this Act, the Under Secretary of Defense shall submit to the congressional defense committees a report containing a list of domestic sites—
                  
                     (1)
                     that have a high potential for containing deposits of rare earth elements;
                  
                  
                     (2)
                     where new or additional mining operations for rare earth elements could be established; or
                  
                  
                     (3)
                     that are suitable for mining for rare earth elements, as determined by a feasibility study conducted by the Defense Logistics Agency. 
                  
               
               
                  877.
                  PROHIBITION ON ENTERING INTO CONTRACTS WITH A PERSON ENGAGED IN A BOYCOTT OF THE STATE OF ISRAEL
                  The Secretary of Defense may not enter into a contract with a person if such person is engaged in an activity that is politically motivated and is intended to penalize or otherwise limit significant commercial relations specifically with Israel or persons doing business in Israel or in Israeli-controlled territories.
               
               
                  878.
                  IMPLEMENTATION OF GAO RECOMMENDATIONS RELATING TO SPARE PARTS IN GLOBAL SPARES POOL RELATING TO F-35 PROGRAM
                  
                     (a)
                     In general
                     The Secretary of Defense, acting through the Under Secretary of Defense for Acquisition and Sustainment, shall take such actions as may be necessary to implement the recommendations of the Comptroller General of the United States contained in the report entitled, F-35 Program: DOD Needs Better Accountability for Global Spare Parts and Reporting of Losses Worth Millions.
                  
                  
                     (b)
                     Report
                     Not later than 1 year after the date of the enactment of this Act, the Secretary shall submit a report to Congress on the progress of the implementation required by subsection (a).
                  
               
               
                  879.
                  OPEN INTERFACE STANDARDS FOR CONTRACTS OF THE DEPARTMENT OF DEFENSE
                  Not later than one year after the date of the enactment of this Act, the Secretary of Defense shall make publicly available the open interface standards for contracts awarded by the Secretary, unless the service acquisition executive (as defined in section 101 of title 10, United States Code) with respect to a specific contract submits to the Secretary a request to not disclose such standards. 
               
               
                  880.
                  ASSESSMENT OF COMPLIANCE WITH GLOBAL HOUSEHOLD GOODS CONTRACT REQUIREMENTS
                  
                     (a)
                     Assessment
                     The Commander of the United States Transportation Command shall carry out an assessment of the performance of contractors under the Global Household Goods Contract in meeting the applicable requirements for capacity and quality in such contract during the period beginning on May 1, 2025, and ending on August 31, 2025.
                  
                  
                     (b)
                     Report
                     Not later than 11 months after the date of the enactment of this section, the Commander of the United States Transportation Command shall submit to the Committees on Armed Services of the Senate and the House of Representatives a report on the findings of the assessment required under subsection (a).
                  
               
               
                  881.
                  REPORTS ON NATIONAL SECURITY RISKS
                  
                     (a)
                     GAO report
                     
                        (1)
                        In general
                        The Comptroller General of the United States shall submit to Congress a report containing the results of a study on the national security risks posed by consulting firms who simultaneously contract with the Federal Government and the Chinese government or its proxies or affiliates. 
                     
                     
                        (2)
                        Contents
                        In performing the study under paragraph (1), the Comptroller General shall—
                        
                           (A)
                           assess the extent to which Federal agencies collect information on contracts performed on behalf of the Chinese government or its proxies or affiliates by consulting firms that hold or have held contracts with the Federal Government, and whether such information includes specific projects and deliverables of such contracts;
                        
                        
                           (B)
                           evaluate the extent to which selected Federal agencies, to include at a minimum the Department of Defense and elements of the Intelligence Community, have assessed the risks posed by American consulting firms’ work for the Chinese government and its proxies or affiliates, including an assessment of risk of deliberate or inadvertent sharing of Federal Government information that may be used for Chinese economic or military advantage;
                        
                        
                           (C)
                           identify relevant contract clauses, procedures, and information used by Federal agencies to identify, evaluate and resolve organizational conflicts of interest when awarding consulting contracts;
                        
                        
                           (D)
                           assess the extent to which agencies experience challenges when identifying, evaluating and resolving organizational conflicts of interest, including determining whether the offeror or potential contractor also performs work for China; and
                        
                        
                           (E)
                           identify steps federal agencies take to monitor contractor compliance with any contract clauses, terms or conditions intended to resolve identified conflicts of interest.
                        
                     
                  
                  
                     (b)
                     Report on conflicts of interest
                     The Secretary of Defense shall annually submit to Congress a report on—
                     
                        (1)
                        the implementation of section 812 of the National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2024 (10 U.S.C. 4501 note prec.); and
                     
                     
                        (2)
                        how the Department of Defense is defining the term entities related to the Chinese or Russian governments and whether, and to what extent, the Secretary is investigating conflicts of interest between prime contractors of the Department of Defense and subsidiary companies of such contractors.
                     
                  
               
               
                  882.
                  PROHIBITION ON FUNDING FOR COVERED ENTITIES AND NONPROFIT ORGANIZATIONS OR OTHER ENTITIES THAT ENGAGE IN COVERED BEHAVIOR
                  
                     (a)
                     In general
                     None of the funds authorized to be appropriated by this Act or otherwise made available for fiscal year 2025 may be used to contract with or grant awards to—
                     
                        (1)
                        a covered entity; or
                     
                     
                        (2)
                        a nonprofit organization or other entity that engages in covered behavior.
                     
                  
                  
                     (b)
                     Definitions
                     In this section:
                     
                        (1)
                        The term covered entity means—
                        
                           (A)
                           NewsGuard Technologies, Inc. (doing business as NewsGuard); or
                        
                        
                           (B)
                           Disinformation Index, Inc., Disinformation Index, Ltd., or Global Disinformation Index gUG (collectively doing business as Global Disinformation Index).
                        
                     
                     
                        (2)
                        The term covered behavior means operations, activities, or products, the function of which is to demonetize or rate the credibility of a domestic entity (including news and information outlets) based on lawful speech of such domestic entity under the stated function of fact-checking misinformation, disinformation, or malinformation.
                     
                     
                        (3)
                        The term nonprofit organization means an organization that is described in section 501(c)(3) of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986 and that is exempt from taxation under section 501(a) of such Code.
                     
                  
               
               
                  883.
                  PROHIBITIONS RELATING TO COVERED DISTRIBUTED LEDGER TECHNOLOGY AND BLOCKCHAIN EQUIPMENT OR SERVICES
                  
                     (a)
                     Prohibition on acquisition
                     The Secretary of Defense may not acquire, or enter into, extend, or renew a contract or other agreement for, any equipment, system, or service that uses covered distributed ledger technology and blockchain equipment or services as—
                     
                        (1)
                        a substantial or essential component of such equipment, system, or service; or
                     
                     
                        (2)
                        critical technology as part of such equipment, system, or service.
                     
                  
                  
                     (b)
                     Prohibition on loan and grant funds
                     
                        (1)
                        Prohibition
                        The Secretary of Defense may not obligate or expend loan or grant funds to acquire, or to enter into, extend, or renew a contract or other agreement for, any equipment, system, or service described in subsection (a).
                     
                     
                        (2)
                        Prioritization
                        In implementing the prohibition under paragraph (1), the Secretary of Defense, in administering a loan, grant, or subsidy program, shall prioritize available funding and technical support to assist affected entities as is reasonably necessary for those affected entities to cease use of covered distributed ledger technology and blockchain equipment or services, to acquire replacement equipment and services, and to ensure that communications service to users and customers is sustained.
                     
                  
                  
                     (c)
                     Rule of construction
                     Nothing in subsection (a) or (b) shall be construed to—
                     
                        (1)
                        prohibit the Secretary of Defense from acquiring from an entity, or entering into, extending, or renewing a contract or other agreement with an entity for, a service that connects to the facilities of a third party, such as blockchain protocols or interconnection arrangements; or
                     
                     
                        (2)
                        apply to wireless telecommunications equipment or third-party validators that cannot route or redirect user data traffic or permit visibility into any user data or packets that such equipment transmits or otherwise handles.
                     
                  
                  
                     (d)
                     Effective date
                     The prohibitions under subsections (a) and (b) shall take effect on the date that is two years after the date of the enactment of this Act.
                  
                  
                     (e)
                     Waiver authority
                     
                        (1)
                        In general
                        Except as provided in paragraph (2), beginning on the effective date under subsection (d), the Secretary of Defense may, upon request of an entity, issue a waiver of the requirements under subsection (a) with respect to such entity for a period of not more than two years.
                     
                     
                        (2)
                        Requirements
                        The Secretary may only provide a waiver under this subsection if the entity seeking the waiver—
                        
                           (A)
                           provides a compelling justification for the additional time to implement the requirements of this section; and
                        
                        
                           (B)
                           submits to the Secretary, who shall not later than 30 days thereafter submit to the Committees on Armed Services of the Senate and the House of Representatives, a full and complete description of the presence of covered distributed ledger technology and blockchain equipment or services in the entity’s supply chain and a phase-out plan to eliminate such covered distributed ledger technology and blockchain equipment or services.
                        
                     
                     
                        (3)
                        Elements of the intelligence community
                        Beginning on the effective date under subsection (d), each head of an element of the intelligence community may waive the requirements under subsection (a) if such head determines the waiver is in the national security interests of the United States.
                     
                  
                  
                     (f)
                     Definitions
                     In this Act:
                     
                        (1)
                        The term covered distributed ledger technology and blockchain equipment or services means distributed ledger technology and blockchain equipment or services of or originating from a foreign adversary, including any of the following companies or subsidiaries thereof: 
                        
                           (A)
                           The Blockchain-based Services Network.
                        
                        
                           (B)
                           The Spartan Network.
                        
                        
                           (C)
                           The Conflux Network.
                        
                        
                           (D)
                           iFinex, Inc.
                        
                        
                           (E)
                           Red Date Technology Co., Ltd.
                        
                     
                     
                        (2)
                        The term executive agency has the meaning given the term in section 133 of title 41, United States Code.
                     
                     
                        (3)
                        The term foreign adversary has the meaning given such term in section 7.2 of title 15, Code of Federal Regulations.
                     
                     
                        (4)
                        The term intelligence community has the meaning given the term in section 3 of the National Security Act of 1947 (50 U.S.C. 3003).
                     
                  
               
               
                  884.
                  REPORT ON CONTRACT GOAL FOR THE ABILITYONE PROGRAM
                  The Secretary of Defense shall submit to the congressional defense committees a report on—
                  
                     (1)
                     the progress of the Department of Defense in achieving the goal for the Department to acquire products and services from qualified nonprofit agencies for the blind and qualified nonprofit agencies for the other severely disabled (as such terms are defined, respectively, in section 8501 of title 41, United States Code) pursuant to chapter 85 of title 41, United States Code, in an amount equal to one percent of the total funds obligated or expended by the Department for procurement for a fiscal year; and
                  
                  
                     (2)
                     any obstacles faced by the Secretary in achieving the goal described in paragraph (1).
                  
               
               
                  885.
                  REPORT ON SMALL PURCHASES OF CRITICAL MINERALS AND MAGNETS
                  
                     (a)
                     In general
                     Not later than 180 days after the enactment of this section, the Director of the Defense Contract Management Agency shall submit to the congressional defense committees a report detailing the dollar amount of covered materials manufactured in China and Russia and acquired by the Department of Defense through contracts valued at or below the simplified acquisition threshold during the period beginning on January 1, 2020, and ending on the date of the submission of such report to the congressional defense committees.
                  
                  
                     (b)
                     Contents
                     The report required by subsection (a) shall include—
                     
                        (1)
                        the total value of contracts under which covered materials were acquired by the Department of Defense during the period covered by the report;
                     
                     
                        (2)
                        the total value of contracts under which covered materials manufactured in China or Russia were acquired by the Department of Defense during the period covered by the report;
                     
                     
                        (3)
                        the total value of contracts under which covered materials were acquired by the Department of Defense during the period covered by the report for which the Director could not determine whether the covered materials were manufactured in China or Russia;
                     
                     
                        (4)
                        for each covered material, the value of the covered material acquired by the Department of Defense during the period covered by the report that was manufactured in China or Russia; and
                     
                     
                        (5)
                        any recommendations from the Director for improving the ability of the Department of Defense to track the manufacturer of covered materials.
                     
                  
                  
                     (c)
                     Acquisitions by the Defense Logistics Agency
                     Each value described in subsection (b) contained in the report required by subsection (a) shall be disaggregated by acquisitions made by the Defense Logistics Agency and acquisitions made by other elements of the Department of Defense.
                  
                  
                     (d)
                     Rule of construction
                     For the purposes of this section, the Director shall regard manufacturing as being the main value-add step in the supply chain in which raw minerals are initially combined into a metallic, alloyed, or magnetic form and shall not count late-stage cutting and finishing processes or distribution as the critical manufacturing step.
                  
                  
                     (e)
                     Covered material defined
                     In this section, the term covered material means—
                     
                        (1)
                        samarium-cobalt magnets;
                     
                     
                        (2)
                        neodymium-iron-boron magnets;
                     
                     
                        (3)
                        tungsten metal powder;
                     
                     
                        (4)
                        tungsten heavy alloy;
                     
                     
                        (5)
                        tantalum metals and alloys;
                     
                     
                        (6)
                        aluminum-nickel-cobalt magnets; or
                     
                     
                        (7)
                        any other metals listed in section 4863(l) of title 10, United States Code.
                     
                  
               
               
                  886.
                  LIMITATION ON AVAILABILITY OF FUNDS FOR INSTALLATION OF PHOTOVOLTAIC MODULES
                  
                     (a)
                     In general
                     None of the funds authorized to be appropriated by this Act or otherwise made available for fiscal year 2025 for the Department of Defense may be used to for a contract for the installation of photovoltaic modules at any facility or real property of the Department of Defense unless the contract contains a provision prohibiting the procurement of such photovoltaic modules from a foreign entity of concern (as defined in section 9901(8) of the William M. (Mac) Thornberry National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2021 (15 U.S.C. 4651(8))).
                  
                  
                     (b)
                     Study
                     Not later than 30 days after the date of the enactment of this Act, the Secretary of Defense shall submit to the congressional defense committees a report on the expected amount to be obligated fiscal year 2025 to install photovoltaic modules at Department of Defense facilities.
                  
                  
                     (c)
                     Limitation
                     
                        (1)
                        In general
                        Subject to the availability of appropriations and except as explicitly provided in a provision of law enacted after the date of the enactment of this section, the Secretary of Defense may not obligate or expend from amounts otherwise authorized to be appropriated for fiscal year 2025 for the purpose of installing photovoltaic modules at any facility or real property of the Department of Defense more than the amount certified in the report required under subsection (b) for such purpose during fiscal year 2025.
                     
                     
                        (2)
                        Limitation on transfer authority
                        Notwithstanding any other provision of law, amounts are not authorized to be transferred or reprogrammed pursuant to any authority of the Secretary of Defense for fiscal year 2025 to exceed the amount certified in the report required under subsection (b).
                     
                  
               
               
                  887.
                  STUDY AND REPORT ON SHIPPING CONTAINERS AND SPECIALTY SHIPPING CONTAINERS
                  
                     (a)
                     Study and report
                     Not later than 180 days after the date of the enactment of this Act, the Secretary of Defense, in coordination with the Secretary of Transportation, shall submit to the congressional defense committees, the Committee on Transportation and Infrastructure of the House of Representatives, and the Committee on Commerce, Science, and Transportation of the Senate, a report that contains the results of a study on—
                     
                        (1)
                        the national security implications of reliance on shipping containers and specialty shipping containers produced by foreign adversary countries to meet national defense requirements; and
                     
                     
                        (2)
                        the feasibility and advisability of production of shipping containers and specialty shipping containers by covered countries for procurement by the Department of Defense.
                     
                  
                  
                     (b)
                     Elements
                     The report required by subsection (a) shall include—
                     
                        (1)
                        an assessment of the ability of the Secretary of Defense to procure shipping containers and specialty shipping containers from sources other than foreign adversary countries, including—
                        
                           (A)
                           any barriers faced by the Secretary for such procurement, along with recommendations to mitigate such barriers; and
                        
                        
                           (B)
                           a timetable for such procurement;
                        
                     
                     
                        (2)
                        in coordination with entities in the domestic defense industrial base, an assessment of requirements for shipping containers and specialty shipping containers that could be produced in a covered country or which could be acquired from allied or partner countries, including an assessment of the capabilities and capacities of the workforce of the domestic defense industrial base, supply chain considerations, and the impact on the economy of the United States;
                     
                     
                        (3)
                        an assessment how an alternative source for procurement of specialty shipping containers would affect defense systems requiring specialty shipping containers, particularly in the event of a crisis; and
                     
                     
                        (4)
                        any other relevant considerations, as jointly determined by the Secretary of Defense and Secretary of Transportation.
                     
                  
                  
                     (c)
                     Form
                     The report required under subsection (a) shall be submitted in unclassified form, but may include a classified annex.
                  
                  
                     (d)
                     Definitions
                     In this section:
                     
                        (1)
                        The term covered country means the United States or an ally or partner country.
                     
                     
                        (2)
                        The term foreign adversary country means a country specified in section 4872(d)(2) of title 10, United States Code. 
                     
                     
                        (3)
                        The term shipping container has the meaning given the term container in section 80501 of title 46, United States Code.
                     
                     
                        (4)
                        The term specialty shipping container means a shipping container that is uniquely configured to support and protect items contained during handling, storage, unpacking, and forward and return shipment, or to protect personnel and equipment from hazardous contents.
                     
                  
               
            
         
         
            IX
            DEPARTMENT OF DEFENSE ORGANIZATION AND MANAGEMENT
            
               A
               Office of the Secretary of Defense and Related Matters
               
                  901.
                  CHIEF TALENT MANAGEMENT OFFICER
                  
                     Chapter 4 of title 10, United States Code, is amended by adding at the end the following new section:
                  
                     
                        149a.
                        CHIEF TALENT MANAGEMENT OFFICER
                        
                           (a)
                           In general
                           
                              (1)
                              There is a Chief Talent Management Officer of the Department of Defense, who shall be appointed by the Secretary of Defense.
                           
                           
                              (2)
                              The Chief Talent Management Officer shall report directly to the Secretary of Defense in the performance of the duties of the Chief Talent Management Officer under this section.
                           
                        
                        
                           (b)
                           Duties
                           The Chief Talent Management officer shall—
                           
                              (1)
                              serve as the principal staff assistant to the Secretary of Defense and Deputy Secretary of Defense on matters relating to total force talent management within the Department of Defense, including talent management for military personnel (including members of the active and reserve components of the armed forces) and civilian personnel of the Department; 
                           
                           
                              (2)
                              develop and implement the overall talent strategy for military and civilian personnel in the Department of Defense, which shall include working across the military departments, Joint Staff, Office of the Secretary of Defense, and with interagency partners to lead the total force talent acquisition and management efforts of the Department;
                           
                           
                              (3)
                              oversee updates and reforms for remote and hybrid work, the use of enabling technology, practices for developing and tracking talent, and encouraging movement of talent across components, agencies, and non-governmental entities to help promote flexible career pathways and increase retention;
                           
                           
                              (4)
                              match talent to needs within the Department and integrate broad upskilling and reskilling programs to create the future national defense workforce;
                           
                           
                              (5)
                              coordinate all talent programs within the Department, including by developing pathways for permeability between uniformed and non-uniformed service opportunities and opportunities in the private sector;
                           
                           
                              (6)
                              maintain, strengthen, and improve the Department’s use of competitive service hiring authorities under title 5 and the authorities available under section 129 of this title to ensure the Department recruits and retains a strong and professional civilian workforce;
                           
                           
                              (7)
                              study and promote best practices for workforce development from the government, nonprofit, academic, and private sectors;
                           
                           
                              (8)
                              serve as the principal liaison between the Department and the national security talent industrial and innovation base;
                           
                           
                              (9)
                              carry out programs, projects, and other activities to strengthen the national security talent industrial and innovation base;
                           
                           
                              (10)
                              identify rules, regulations, policies, and guidance related to military and civilian talent management that require change for the purposes of achieving efficiencies and meeting the personnel needs of the Department;
                           
                           
                              (11)
                              coordinate with the Joint Staff and the Commanders of the combatant commands to identify talent needs to meet operational challenges;
                           
                           
                              (12)
                              develop an employer brand for the Department of Defense that positions the Department as a sought after employer;
                           
                           
                              (13)
                              using available hiring authorities, develop a capability to rapidly prototype workforce development and talent acquisition approaches with non-profit, academic, Government, and private sector agencies and organizations; and
                           
                           
                              (14)
                              carry out such other duties relating to talent management as may be assigned by the Secretary of Defense.
                           
                        
                        
                           (c)
                           Intermediary organizations
                           The Chief Talent Management Officer shall seek to partner with multiple intermediary organizations, including academic institutions and other key stakeholders in the talent industrial and innovation base, to support the development of pools of qualified individuals with the skills and expertise necessary to meet critical personnel needs of the Department of Defense. Activities undertaken pursuant to such partnerships may include the identification, training, and vetting of critical talent for the Department, including individuals with expertise relating to artificial intelligence, biotechnology, cybersecurity, materials and manufacturing, business processes, venture capital, financial markets, and other critical areas.
                        
                        
                           (d)
                           Reporting requirements
                           Not later than 90 days after the date of the enactment of this section, and on a semiannual basis thereafter, the Secretary of Defense, in coordination with the Chief Talent Management Officer, shall submit to the congressional defense committees a report that includes—
                           
                              (1)
                              the strategy for implementation of the position of Chief Talent Management Officer of the Department of Defense;
                           
                           
                              (2)
                              any additional authorities or funding required for the Chief Talent Management officer to carry the purposes of this section; and
                           
                           
                              (3)
                              such other information as the Secretary determines appropriate.
                           
                        
                     
                     .
                  
               
               
                  902.
                  EXECUTIVE AGENT FOR COUNTERING THREATS POSED BY SMALL UNMANNED AIRCRAFT
                  
                     Chapter 4 of title 10, United States Code, as amended by section 901, is further amended by adding at the end the following new section:
                  
                     
                        149b.
                        EXECUTIVE AGENT FOR COUNTERING THREATS POSED BY SMALL UNMANNED AIRCRAFT
                        
                           (a)
                           Executive agent
                           The Secretary of Defense, shall designate a senior official from among the personnel of the Department of Defense to act as the executive agent responsible for providing oversight of—
                           
                              (1)
                              the efforts of the Department to counter small unmanned aircraft and systems; and
                           
                           
                              (2)
                              associated training and technology programs. 
                           
                        
                        
                           (b)
                           Duties
                           The Executive agent shall—
                           
                              (1)
                              coordinate and integrate joint requirements to counter threats posed by small unmanned aircraft;
                           
                           
                              (2)
                              provide common individual training to members of the Armed Forces on countering such threats; and
                           
                           
                              (3)
                              carry out joint research, development, test, and evaluation activities for common activities on behalf of the military departments with respect to counter-UAS systems.
                           
                        
                        
                           (c)
                           Support within Department of Defense
                           The Secretary of Defense shall ensure that the military departments, Defense Agencies, and other components of the Department of Defense provide the executive agent designated under subsection (a) with the appropriate support and resources needed to perform the roles, responsibilities, and authorities of the executive agent.
                        
                        
                           (d)
                           Compliance with existing directive
                           The Secretary shall carry out this section in compliance with Directive 5101.1.
                        
                        
                           (e)
                           Definitions
                           In this section:
                           
                              (1)
                              The term Directive 5101.1 means Department of Defense Directive 5101.1, or any successor directive relating to the responsibilities of an executive agent of the Department of Defense.
                           
                           
                              (2)
                              The term executive agent has the meaning given the term DoD Executive Agent in Directive 5101.1.
                           
                           
                              (3)
                              The terms counter-UAS system, unmanned aircraft, and small unmanned aircraft have the meanings given those terms in section 44801 of title 49, United States Code.
                           
                        
                     
                     .
                  
               
               
                  903.
                  ELIMINATION OF THE CHIEF DIVERSITY OFFICER OF THE DEPARTMENT OF DEFENSE
                  
                     (a)
                     Repeal of position
                     Section 147 of title 10, United States Code, is repealed.
                  
                  
                     (b)
                     Conforming repeal
                     Section 913 of the William M. (Mac) Thornberry National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2021 (Public Law 116–283; 8 U.S.C. 147 note) is repealed.
                  
                  
                     (c)
                     Prohibition on establishment of similar positions
                     No Federal funds may be obligated or expended to establish a position within the Department of Defense that is the same as or substantially similar to—
                     
                        (1)
                        the position of Chief Diversity Officer, as described in section 147 of title 10, United States Code, as such section was in effect before the date of the enactment of this Act; or
                     
                     
                        (2)
                        the position of Senior Advisor for Diversity and Inclusion, as described in section 913(b) of the William M. (Mac) Thornberry National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2021 (Public Law 116–283; 10 U.S.C. 147 note), as such section was in effect before the date of the enactment of this Act.
                     
                  
               
            
            
               B
               Other Department of Defense Organization and Management Matters
               
                  921.
                  DESIGNATION OF SENIOR OFFICIALS RESPONSIBLE FOR CONTESTED LOGISTICS POSTURE MANAGEMENT
                  
                     (a)
                     Role of Under Secretary of Defense for Acquisition and Sustainment
                     Section 133b(b)(5) of title 10, United States Code, is amended—
                     
                        (1)
                        in subparagraph (B), by striking and at the end;
                     
                     
                        (2)
                        in subparagraph (C), by adding and at the end; and
                     
                     
                        (3)
                        by adding at the end the following new subparagraph:
                        
                           
                              (D)
                              the official with principal responsibility for contested logistics posture management for the Department in accordance with section 2229b(a) of this title;
                           
                           .
                        
                     
                  
                  
                     (b)
                     Designation of senior military department officials
                     
                        Chapter 131 of title 10, United States Code, is amended by adding at the end the following new section:
                     
                        
                           2229b.
                           SENIOR OFFICIALS RESPONSIBLE FOR CONTESTED LOGISTICS POSTURE MANAGEMENT
                           
                              (a)
                              In general
                              The Under Secretary of Defense for Acquisition and Sustainment shall be the official in the Department of Defense with principal responsibility for contested logistics posture management for the Department. In carrying out such responsibilities, the Under Secretary shall coordinate with the senior military department officials designated under subsection (b).
                           
                           
                              (b)
                              Designation of senior military department officials
                              Each secretary of a military department shall designate, from among officials serving in the department who have been confirmed by the Senate, an official to have principal responsibility for contested logistics posture management for that department.
                           
                           
                              (c)
                              Deputies
                              Each senior official designated under subsection (b) may designate an official of the military department concerned to serve as a deputy to assist the senior official in carrying out the responsibilities under this section. 
                           
                           
                              (d)
                              Responsibilities
                              Each senior official designated under subsection (b) shall be responsible for—
                              
                                 (1)
                                 ensuring that the department concerned is adequately prepared to provide logistics support to the armed forces of that department in contested environments outside the continental United States, including by—
                                 
                                    (A)
                                    establishing or arranging for access to locations through which supplies and equipment can be provided to such forces;
                                 
                                 
                                    (B)
                                    developing any necessary infrastructure; and
                                 
                                 
                                    (C)
                                    to the extent feasible, prepositioning supplies and equipment at such locations; and
                                 
                              
                              
                                 (2)
                                 ensuring that the logistics capabilities described in paragraph (1) meet the requirements of the operational and contingency plans of such forces.
                              
                           
                           
                              (e)
                              Contested logistics posture strategy
                              
                                 (1)
                                 Each senior official designated under subsection (b) shall develop and implement strategy for carrying out the responsibilities described in subsection (d). 
                              
                              
                                 (2)
                                 Each strategy under paragraph (1) shall include the following:
                                 
                                    (A)
                                    A description of—
                                    
                                       (i)
                                       the locations of sites outside the continental United States at which stocks of supplies and equipment are prepositioned as of the date of the strategy;
                                    
                                    
                                       (ii)
                                       the status and disposition of such prepositioned stocks; and
                                    
                                    
                                       (iii)
                                       the operational or contingency plan such stocks are intended to support. 
                                    
                                 
                                 
                                    (B)
                                    Identification of—
                                    
                                       (i)
                                       any shortcomings associated with the sites and prepositioned stocks described in subparagraph (A) that must be addressed to optimally execute operational and contingency plans; and
                                    
                                    
                                       (ii)
                                       any additional sites, infrastructure, or equipment that may be needed to address such shortcomings and support such plans.
                                    
                                 
                                 
                                    (C)
                                    A description of any additional funding or other resources required—
                                    
                                       (i)
                                       to address the shortcomings identified under subparagraph (B)(i); and
                                    
                                    
                                       (ii)
                                       to provide for the additional sites, infrastructure, and equipment identified under subparagraph (B)(ii).
                                    
                                 
                                 
                                    (D)
                                    A prioritized list of investment recommendations for each item described in subparagraph (C).
                                 
                                 
                                    (E)
                                    Identification of each case in which the military department concerned lacks the authority or ability to access a location outside the United States for purposes of providing logistics support as required under operational and contingency plans, set forth separately by location.
                                 
                                 
                                    (F)
                                    An assessment of any existing and projected threats to sites outside the continental United States that are expected to support such operational and contingency plans.
                                 
                              
                              
                                 (3)
                                 Covered period and updates
                                 Each strategy under paragraph (1) shall cover the period of one year following the date of the strategy and shall be updated on an annual basis in accordance with paragraph (4).
                              
                              
                                 (4)
                                 Annual reports
                                 
                                    (A)
                                    Initial report
                                    Not later than 180 days after the date of the enactment of this section, each senior official designated under subsection (b) shall submit to the congressional defense committees a report that includes the strategy developed under paragraph (1).
                                 
                                 
                                    (B)
                                    Subsequent reports
                                    On an annual basis following the submittal of the initial report under subparagraph (A), each senior official designated under subsection (b) shall submit to the congressional defense committees a report that includes—
                                    
                                       (i)
                                       an updated version of the strategy under paragraph (1); 
                                    
                                    
                                       (ii)
                                       an assessment of the progress made by the military department concerned in achieving the goals of such strategy; and
                                    
                                    
                                       (iii)
                                       any plans of the official improve the logistics capabilities of the military department concerned to ensure those capabilities meet the requirements of applicable operational and contingency plans. 
                                    
                                 
                              
                           
                           
                              (f)
                              Consultation
                              In carrying out the duties required under this section, each senior official designated under subsection (b) shall consult with subject matter experts from—
                              
                                 (1)
                                 the Office of the Secretary of Defense;
                              
                              
                                 (2)
                                 the Joint Staff;
                              
                              
                                 (3)
                                 the geographic combatant commands;
                              
                              
                                 (4)
                                 other military departments;
                              
                              
                                 (5)
                                 the Department of State; and
                              
                              
                                 (6)
                                 such other departments and agencies of the Federal Government as the official determines appropriate.
                              
                           
                           
                              (g)
                              Representation
                              To the extent practicable, the Secretary of Defense shall ensure that each official designated under subsection (b) is included in any panels, working groups, or advisory bodies of the Department with roles relating the matters described in subsection (d).
                           
                        
                        .
                     
                  
                  
                     (c)
                     Deadline for designation
                     Not later than 90 days after the date of the enactment of this Act, each Secretary of a military department shall make the designation required under section 2229b(b) of title 10, United States Code (as added by subsection (b) of this section).
                  
               
               
                  922.
                  ELIGIBILITY OF CHIEF OF THE NATIONAL GUARD BUREAU FOR APPOINTMENT AS CHAIRMAN OF THE JOINT CHIEFS OF STAFF
                  Section 152(b)(1)(B) of title 10, United States Code, is amended by striking the Commandant of the Marine Corps, or the Chief of Space Operations and inserting the Commandant of the Marine Corps, the Chief of Space Operations, or the Chief of the National Guard Bureau.
               
               
                  923.
                  DESIGNATION OF DEPUTY UNDER SECRETARY OF THE ARMY AS PRINCIPAL OFFICIAL RESPONSIBLE FOR EXPLOSIVE ORDNANCE DISPOSAL
                  
                     (a)
                     In general
                     Section 7014 of title 10, United States Code, is amended by adding at the end the following new subsection:
                     
                        
                           (g)
                           
                              (1)
                              The Secretary of the Army shall designate the Deputy Under Secretary of the Army as the official within the Office of the Secretary of the Army with principal responsibility for the explosive ordnance disposal enterprise of the Army.
                           
                           
                              (2)
                              The responsibilities of the Deputy Under Secretary of the Army under this subsection shall include—
                              
                                 (A)
                                 providing oversight and strategic direction for the management and operations of the explosive ordnance disposal enterprise of the Army, including planning, programming, budgeting, and execution;
                              
                              
                                 (B)
                                 providing strategic direction for the funding of the enterprise, including funding for—
                                 
                                    (i)
                                    manning, training, organizing, equipping (including any associated research and development), and sustaining the enterprise; and
                                 
                                 
                                    (ii)
                                    supporting military installations that comprise the enterprise; 
                                 
                              
                              
                                 (C)
                                 providing strategic direction for the activities of the enterprise in providing explosive ordinance disposal support for—
                                 
                                    (i)
                                    the President;
                                 
                                 
                                    (ii)
                                    combatant commanders;
                                 
                                 
                                    (iii)
                                    military installations; and
                                 
                                 
                                    (iv)
                                    civilian law enforcement agencies (in accordance with sections 282 and 283 of this title); and
                                 
                              
                              
                                 (D)
                                 providing strategic direction on the activities of the enterprise over the full range of military operations from irregular warfare to large-scale ground combat.
                              
                           
                           
                              (3)
                              On an annual basis, the Deputy Under Secretary of the Army shall provide to the Committees on Armed Services of the Senate and the House of Representatives a briefing on the status of the explosive ordnance disposal enterprise of the Army. The briefing shall include, with respect to the period covered by the most recent future-years defense program submitted to Congress under section 221 of this title (as of the date of the briefing), an estimate of the total obligatory authority for the enterprise and the numbers and types of personnel expected to be assigned to the enterprise.
                           
                           
                              (4)
                              In this subsection, the terms explosive ordnance and explosive ordnance disposal have the meanings given those terms in section 2284(d).
                           
                        
                        .
                     
                  
                  
                     (b)
                     Effective date
                     The amendment made by subsection (a) shall take effect 180 days after the date of the enactment of this Act.
                  
               
               
                  924.
                  ESTABLISHMENT OF THE DRONE CORPS AS A BASIC BRANCH OF THE ARMY
                  
                     (a)
                     Designation as basic branch
                     Section 7063(a) of title 10, United States Code, is amended—
                     
                        (1)
                        in paragraph (12), by striking and at the end;
                     
                     
                        (2)
                        by redesignating paragraph (13) as paragraph (14); and
                     
                     
                        (3)
                        by inserting after paragraph (12) the following new paragraph:
                        
                           
                              (13)
                              Drone Corps; and
                           
                           .
                        
                     
                  
                  
                     (b)
                     Organization and functions
                     
                        Chapter 707 of title 10, United States Code, is amended by inserting after section 7081 the following new section:
                     
                        
                           7082.
                           DRONE CORPS: ORGANIZATION AND FUNCTIONS
                           
                              (a)
                              In general
                              There is a Drone Corps in the Army. The Drone Corps consists of—
                              
                                 (1)
                                 the Chief of the Drone Corps, who shall be appointed by the Secretary of the Army from among the officers of the Drone Corps;
                              
                              
                                 (2)
                                 commissioned officers of the Regular Army appointed therein; and
                              
                              
                                 (3)
                                 other members of the Army assigned thereto by the Secretary of the Army.
                              
                           
                           
                              (b)
                              Functions
                              Subject to such limitations or conditions as the Secretary of the Army may prescribe, the Drone Corps shall—
                              
                                 (1)
                                 be the organization in the Army with primary responsibility for programs, projects, and activities involving—
                                 
                                    (A)
                                    small and medium unmanned aircraft;
                                 
                                 
                                    (B)
                                    unmanned aircraft systems that include such aircraft; and
                                 
                                 
                                    (C)
                                    counter-UAS systems;
                                 
                              
                              
                                 (2)
                                 serve as a command center for Army operations involving the aircraft and systems described in paragraph (1);
                              
                              
                                 (3)
                                 carry out activities to integrate such aircraft and systems with Army forces that have not traditionally used such aircraft and systems;
                              
                              
                                 (4)
                                 conduct research, development, testing, and evaluation of such aircraft and systems;
                              
                              
                                 (5)
                                 provide personnel with specialized training in such aircraft and systems;
                              
                              
                                 (6)
                                 carry out programs to attract and retain personnel with expertise relevant to such aircraft and systems;
                              
                              
                                 (7)
                                 develop strategies and capabilities to counter the unmanned aircraft and unmanned aircraft systems of adversary forces; and
                              
                              
                                 (8)
                                 perform such other functions relating to unmanned aircraft and unmanned aircraft systems as the Secretary determines appropriate.
                              
                           
                           
                              (c)
                              Definitions
                              In this section:
                              
                                 (1)
                                 The terms counter-UAS system, unmanned aircraft, and unmanned aircraft system have the meanings given those terms in section 44801 of title 49, United States Code.
                              
                              
                                 (2)
                                 The term medium unmanned aircraft means an unmanned aircraft with gross takeoff weight that is equal to greater than 55 pounds and less than 1320 pounds.
                              
                              
                                 (3)
                                 The term small unmanned aircraft means an unmanned aircraft with a gross takeoff weight of less than 55 pounds.
                              
                           
                        
                        .
                     
                  
               
               
                  925.
                  ARMY ELECTRONIC WARFARE CENTER OF EXCELLENCE
                  
                     (a)
                     In general
                     
                        Chapter 707 of title 10, United States Code, is amended by adding at the end the following new section:
                     
                        
                           7085.
                           ELECTRONIC WARFARE CENTER OF EXCELLENCE
                           
                              (a)
                              Establishment
                              The Secretary of the Army shall establish and operate an Electronic Warfare Center of Excellence within the Army Training and Doctrine Command.
                           
                           
                              (b)
                              Missions
                              The Electronic Warfare Center of Excellence shall be used to—
                              
                                 (1)
                                 provide comprehensive training and other educational programs relating to electronic warfare, including—
                                 
                                    (A)
                                    advanced individual training;
                                 
                                 
                                    (B)
                                    professional military education;
                                 
                                 
                                    (C)
                                    new equipment training; and
                                 
                                 
                                    (D)
                                    instructor training and certification;
                                 
                              
                              
                                 (2)
                                 develop and regularly update the curriculum for such training and programs;
                              
                              
                                 (3)
                                 identify, develop, and integrate materiel and organizational requirements for electronic warfare;
                              
                              
                                 (4)
                                 investigate emerging electronic warfare requirements;
                              
                              
                                 (5)
                                 conduct assessments for electronic warfare materiel requirements determination and development;
                              
                              
                                 (6)
                                 develop and manage the integration of electronic warfare solutions with doctrine, organization, training, materiel, leadership and education, personnel, and facilities;
                              
                              
                                 (7)
                                 conduct analysis for electronic warfare force requirements;
                              
                              
                                 (8)
                                 develop and manage organizational documentation relating to electronic warfare, including field manuals, technical manuals, training materials, standard operating procedures, doctrine publications, and after-action reports;
                              
                              
                                 (9)
                                 carry out such functions as the Secretary of the Army determines appropriate.
                              
                           
                        
                        .
                     
                  
                  
                     (b)
                     Transfer of functions
                     Not later than one year after the date of the enactment of this Act, to the extent determined appropriate by the Secretary of the Army, the Secretary shall transfer the electronic warfare-related programs, projects, and activities of the Cyber Center of Excellence of the Army to the Electronic Warfare Center of Excellence established under section 7085 of title 10, United States Code, as added by subsection (a).
                  
               
               
                  926.
                  CODIFICATION OF ADDITIONAL STAFF CORPS OF THE NAVY
                  
                     (a)
                     Codification
                     Section 8090 of title 10, United States Code, is amended, in subsection (a)—
                     
                        (1)
                        in paragraph (4), by striking and;
                     
                     
                        (2)
                        by redesignating paragraph (5) as paragraph (9); and
                     
                     
                        (3)
                        by inserting, after paragraph (4), the following new paragraphs:
                        
                           
                              (5)
                              the Supply Corps;
                           
                           
                              (6)
                              the Civil Engineer Corps;
                           
                           
                              (7)
                              the Nurse Corps;
                           
                           
                              (8)
                              the Medical Service Corps; and
                           
                           .
                        
                     
                  
                  
                     (b)
                     Conforming amendment
                     Such section is further amended, in subsection (b)(1), by striking Medical Corps, the Dental Corps, the Judge Advocate General’s Corps, and the Chaplain Corps and inserting staff corps specified in subsection (a).
                  
               
               
                  927.
                  FEASIBILITY REPORT ON ESTABLISHMENT OF A DEFENSE INDUSTRIAL REVITALIZATION BOARD
                  
                     (a)
                     Report required
                     Not later than 180 days after the date of the enactment of this Act, the Secretary of Defense shall submit to the Committees on Armed Services of the Senate and the House of Representatives a report on the feasibility and advisability of establishing a Defense Industrial Revitalization Board (in this section referred to as the Board) that—
                     
                        (1)
                        would consist of the members described in subsection (b);
                     
                     
                        (2)
                        would be responsible for ensuring the defense industrial base is prepared to meet Department of Defense wartime production needs by—
                        
                           (A)
                           assessing the health of the defense industrial base;
                        
                        
                           (B)
                           identifying critical shortages and impediments to production of critical munitions and other war materials;
                        
                        
                           (C)
                           identifying required production rates for critical munitions; and
                        
                        
                           (D)
                           overseeing and deconflicting Department and service efforts to improve defense industrial capacity;
                        
                     
                     
                        (3)
                        would, in furtherance of such responsibilities—
                        
                           (A)
                           develop a comprehensive plan that details immediate steps that can be taken to increase the capacity of the defense industrial base;
                        
                        
                           (B)
                           utilize existing supply chain mapping efforts to identify single points of failure that impact munitions and critical weapons platforms and identify funding mechanisms to create second sources or other resilience measures, with a focus on those munitions necessary for a potential war in the Pacific;
                        
                        
                           (C)
                           utilize existing supply chain mapping efforts to identify reliance on foreign adversaries within critical munitions supply chains and recommend amelioration efforts;
                        
                        
                           (D)
                           for critical munitions, establish a minimum procurement rate for purposes of ensuring adequate Department of Defense budgeting in each fiscal year and for directing budget proposals for the Department; and
                        
                        
                           (E)
                            review critical munitions production capacity on a twice yearly basis and take remedial action to address any shortfalls; and
                        
                     
                     
                        (4)
                        would terminate five years after being established.
                     
                  
                  
                     (b)
                     Members described
                     The Board considered for potential establishment in the report under subsection (a) would include the following members:
                     
                        (1)
                        Relevant Department of Defense acquisition, research and engineering, and comptroller personnel.
                     
                     
                        (2)
                        Service acquisition executives and program managers.
                     
                     
                        (3)
                        Defense industry representatives.
                     
                     
                        (4)
                        Relevant think tank experts.
                     
                     
                        (5)
                        Representatives from the Under Secretary of Defense for Acquisition and Sustainment.
                     
                     
                        (6)
                        Representatives from the Under Secretary of Defense for Research and Engineering.
                     
                     
                        (7)
                        Representatives from the Defense Innovation Unit. 
                     
                  
                  
                     (c)
                     Defense industrial base defined
                     In this section, the term defense industrial base means organizations, facilities, and resources that supply the Department of Defense with materials, products, and services for defense purposes.
                  
               
               
                  928.
                  INCLUSION OF MEXICO IN THE AREA OF RESPONSIBILITY OF THE UNITED STATES SOUTHERN COMMAND
                  Not later than 30 days after the date of the enactment of this Act, the Secretary of Defense shall—
                  
                     (1)
                     remove Mexico from the area of responsibility of the United States Northern Command; and
                  
                  
                     (2)
                     include Mexico in the area of responsibility of the United States Southern Command.
                  
               
               
                  929.
                  MEMBERSHIP OF COMMANDANT OF THE COAST GUARD ON THE JOINT CHIEFS OF STAFF
                  
                     (a)
                     Membership on the Joint Chiefs of Staff
                     Section 151(a) of title 10, United States Code, is amended by adding at the end the following new paragraph:
                     
                        
                           (9)
                           The Commandant of the Coast Guard.
                        
                        .
                     
                  
                  
                     (b)
                     Appointment of Chairman; grade and rank
                     Section 152 of such title is amended—
                     
                        (1)
                        in subsection (b)(1)(B) by striking or the Commandant of the Marine Corps and inserting the Commandant of the Marine Corps, or the Commandant of the Coast Guard; and
                     
                     
                        (2)
                        in subsection (c), by striking Navy and inserting Navy or Coast Guard.
                     
                  
                  
                     (c)
                     Vice Chairman
                     Section 154(f) of such title is amended by striking Navy and inserting Navy or Coast Guard.
                  
                  
                     (d)
                     Inclusion on the Joint Staff
                     Section 155(a) of such title is amended—
                     
                        (1)
                        in paragraph (2)—
                        
                           (A)
                           in the matter preceding subparagraph (A), by striking (other than the Coast Guard);
                        
                        
                           (B)
                           in subparagraph (B), by striking and at the end;
                        
                        
                           (C)
                           in subparagraph (C), by striking the period at the end and inserting ; and; and
                        
                        
                           (D)
                           by adding at the end the following new subparagraph:
                           
                              
                                 (D)
                                 the Coast Guard.
                              
                              ; and
                           
                        
                     
                     
                        (2)
                        in paragraph (3), by striking Secretary of the military department having jurisdiction over that armed force and inserting Secretary concerned.
                     
                  
                  
                     (e)
                     Duties as member of Joint Staff
                     Section 302 of title 14, United States Code, is amended—
                     
                        (1)
                        by striking The President may and inserting the following:
                        
                           
                              (a)
                              The President may
                           
                           ; and
                        
                     
                     
                        (2)
                        by adding at the end the following new subsection:
                        
                           
                              (b)
                              
                                 (1)
                                 The Commandant of the Coast Guard shall also perform the duties prescribed for the Commandant as a member of the Joint Chiefs of Staff under section 151 of title 10.
                              
                              
                                 (2)
                                 To the extent that such action does not impair the independence of the Commandant in the performance of the Commandant’s duties as a member of the Joint Chiefs of Staff, the Commandant shall inform the Secretary of the department in which the Coast Guard is operating regarding military advice rendered by members of the Joint Chiefs of Staff on matters affecting such department.
                              
                              
                                 (3)
                                 Subject to the authority, direction, and control of the Secretary of Defense, the Commandant shall keep the Secretary of the department in which the Coast Guard is operating fully informed of significant military operations affecting the duties and responsibilities of such Secretary.
                              
                           
                           .
                        
                     
                  
               
               
                  930.
                  DEPARTMENT OF DEFENSE SENIOR INTELLIGENCE OVERSIGHT OFFICIAL
                  Subchapter I of chapter 21 of title 10, United States Code, is amended by adding at the end the following:
                  
                     
                        430c.
                        SENIOR INTELLIGENCE OVERSIGHT OFFICIAL
                        
                           (a)
                           Establishment
                           The Secretary of Defense, or a designee of the Secretary determined by regulations prescribed by the Secretary, shall designate a civilian employee of the Department of Defense in the Senior Executive Service to serve as the Senior Intelligence Oversight Official.
                        
                        
                           (b)
                           Responsibilities
                           The Senior Intelligence Oversight Official shall exercise independent oversight of all intelligence, intelligence-related, and sensitive activities of the Department of Defense, including activities involving—
                           
                              (1)
                              tradecraft;
                           
                           
                              (2)
                              the operational use of an individual; or
                           
                           
                              (3)
                              clandestine operational tactics, techniques, and procedures.
                           
                        
                        
                           (c)
                           Access
                           The Senior Intelligence Oversight Official shall have—
                           
                              (1)
                              complete and unrestricted access to all information concerning any intelligence, intelligence-related, or sensitive activity of the Department of Defense regardless of classification or compartmentalization, including special access programs, from any personnel or organizational entity of the Department of Defense, to the extent necessary to carry out the responsibilities and functions of the Senior Intelligence Oversight Official; and
                           
                           
                              (2)
                              direct access to the Secretary of Defense and the Deputy Secretary of Defense, as circumstances require in the determination of the Senior Intelligence Oversight Official.
                           
                        
                        
                           (d)
                           Review of regulations
                           The Secretary of Defense shall review and update Department of Defense Directive 5148.13, and any associated or successor regulation or directive, to conform to this section.
                        
                     
                     .
                  
               
            
         
         
            X
            GENERAL PROVISIONS
            
               A
               Financial Matters
               
                  1001.
                  GENERAL TRANSFER AUTHORITY
                  
                     (a)
                     Authority to transfer authorizations
                     
                        (1)
                        Authority
                        Upon determination by the Secretary of Defense that such action is necessary in the national interest, the Secretary may transfer amounts of authorizations made available to the Department of Defense in this division for fiscal year 2025 between any such authorizations for that fiscal year (or any subdivisions thereof). Amounts of authorizations so transferred shall be merged with and be available for the same purposes as the authorization to which transferred.
                     
                     
                        (2)
                        Limitation
                        Except as provided in paragraph (3), the total amount of authorizations that the Secretary may transfer under the authority of this section may not exceed $6,000,000,000.
                     
                     
                        (3)
                        Exception for transfers between military personnel authorizations
                        A transfer of funds between military personnel authorizations under title IV shall not be counted toward the dollar limitation in paragraph (2).
                     
                  
                  
                     (b)
                     Limitations
                     The authority provided by subsection (a) to transfer authorizations—
                     
                        (1)
                        may only be used to provide authority for items that have a higher priority than the items from which authority is transferred; and
                     
                     
                        (2)
                        may not be used to provide authority for an item that has been denied authorization by Congress.
                     
                  
                  
                     (c)
                     Effect on authorization amounts
                     A transfer made from one account to another under the authority of this section shall be deemed to increase the amount authorized for the account to which the amount is transferred by an amount equal to the amount transferred.
                  
                  
                     (d)
                     Notice to Congress
                     The Secretary shall promptly notify Congress of each transfer made under subsection (a).
                  
               
               
                  1002.
                  REVISION OF DEPARTMENT OF DEFENSE FINANCIAL MANAGEMENT REGULATION
                  
                     (a)
                     Not later than September 30, 2026, the Under Secretary of Defense for Comptroller shall revise the Department of Defense Financial Management Regulation 7000.14-R. The Under Secretary shall ensure that the revised regulation—
                     
                        (1)
                        is consistent and clear throughout;
                     
                     
                        (2)
                        includes updated guidance with respect to legislative and regulatory requirements; and
                     
                     
                        (3)
                        does not include any outdated guidance or guidance subject to change annually in an annual appropriations act.
                     
                  
                  
                     (b)
                     Considerations
                     In revising the regulation under subsection (a), the Under Secretary shall—
                     
                        (1)
                        prioritize clarity and accessibility in the language and direction provided, including improvements to the coordination and approval process for recommended changes;
                     
                     
                        (2)
                        review and adopt modern financial practices that better align to current development and production cycles;
                     
                     
                        (3)
                        consider information technology solutions to improve the accessibility and usability of the Financial Management Regulation; and
                     
                     
                        (4)
                        in consultation with the Cross-Functional Team established under section 1003 consider the recommendations of the Commission on Planning, Programming, Budgeting, and Execution Reform.
                     
                  
                  
                     (c)
                     Briefing
                     Not later than 90 days after the date of the enactment of this Act, and once every 90 days thereafter during the three-year period following such date of enactment, the Secretary shall provide to the congressional defense committees a briefing on the efforts to update the Financial Management Regulation. Each such briefing shall include each of the following:
                     
                        (1)
                        The progress made in updating the Financial Management Regulation.
                     
                     
                        (2)
                        The plan and timeline for completing revisions to the Financial Management Regulation.
                     
                     
                        (3)
                        Any barriers to the ability of the Department of Defense to update the Financial Management Regulation as required under this section.
                     
                     
                        (4)
                        Any legislation required to complete revisions of the Financial Management Regulation.
                     
                     
                        (5)
                        Any other information determined relevant by the Secretary.
                     
                  
               
               
                  1003.
                  CROSS-FUNCTIONAL TEAM FOR IMPLEMENTATION OF RECOMMENDATIONS OF THE COMMISSION ON PLANNING, PROGRAMMING, BUDGETING, AND EXECUTION REFORM
                  
                     (a)
                     Establishment
                     Using the authority provided pursuant to section 911(c) of the National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2017 (Public Law 114–328; 10 U.S.C. 111 note), the Secretary of Defense shall establish a cross-functional team to address the implementation of the recommendations of the Commission on Planning, Programming, Budgeting, and Execution Reform (in this section referred to as the Commission).
                  
                  
                     (b)
                     Duties
                     The duties of the cross-functional team established under subsection (a) shall be to assist the Secretary of Defense with the implementation of the recommendations of the Commission and any efforts regarding such recommendations that the Secretary determines necessary.
                  
                  
                     (c)
                     Team leadership
                     The Secretary shall select an Under Secretary of Defense to lead the cross-functional team and a senior military officer to serve as the deputy to the Under Secretary so selected.
                  
                  
                     (d)
                     Determination of organizational roles and responsibilities
                     The Secretary, acting through the cross-functional team established under subsection (a), shall determine the roles and responsibilities of the organizations and elements of the Department of Defense with respect to addressing the implementation of the recommendations of the Commission, including the roles and responsibilities of the Office of the Secretary of Defense, Defense agencies, Department of Defense field activities, the military departments, the combatant commands, and the Joint Staff.
                  
                  
                     (e)
                     Briefings
                     
                        (1)
                        Initial briefing
                        Not later than 45 days after the date of the enactment of this Act, the Secretary shall provide to the congressional defense committees a briefing on—
                        
                           (A)
                           the progress of the Secretary in establishing the cross-functional team required under subsection (a); and
                        
                        
                           (B)
                           the progress the team has made in—
                           
                              (i)
                              determining the roles and responsibilities of the organizations and elements of the Department of Defense with respect the cross-functional team; and
                           
                           
                              (ii)
                              carrying out the duties under subsection (b).
                           
                        
                     
                     
                        (2)
                        Updates
                        Not later than 90 days after the date of the enactment of this Act, and once every 90 days thereafter during the three-year period following such date of enactment, the Secretary shall provide to the congressional defense committees a briefing containing updates with respect to the efforts of the Department regarding implementation of the recommendations of the Commission.
                     
                  
               
               
                  1004.
                  CONGRESSIONAL NOTIFICATION OF TRANSFER OF FUNDS
                  Subsection (c) of section 2214 of title 10, United States Code, is amended to read as follows:
                  
                     
                        (c)
                        Notice to Congress
                        
                           (1)
                           Not later than five days after the Secretary of Defense transfers amounts under such authority to transfer amounts, the Secretary shall provide to the congressional defense committees and the covered members of Congress notice of the transfer.
                        
                        
                           (2)
                           Notice under this subsection with respect to a transfer shall include—
                           
                              (A)
                              a written description of the transfer; and
                           
                           
                              (B)
                              upon the request of a congressional defense committee or a covered member of Congress, a briefing on the transfer, which shall be provided not later than five days after the date on which the briefing is requested.
                           
                        
                        
                           (3)
                           In this subsection, the term covered member of Congress means, with respect to a transfer—
                           
                              (A)
                              each Member of the House of Representatives who represents a district that would be affected by the transfer; and
                           
                           
                              (B)
                              both Senators from each State that would be affected by the transfer.
                           
                        
                     
                     .
                  
               
               
                  1005.
                  DEPARTMENT OF DEFENSE SPENDING REDUCTIONS IN ABSENCE OF SUBMITTED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS OR FAILURE TO ACHIEVE UNQUALIFIED OR QUALIFIED INDEPENDENT AUDIT OPINION
                  
                     (a)
                     Applicability
                     
                        (1)
                        In general
                        Subject to paragraph (2), this section applies to the Department of Defense, including military departments and Defense Agencies thereof.
                     
                     
                        (2)
                        Separate applicability
                        If a military department or Defense Agency is identified by the Director of the Office of Management and Budget as required to have its own audited financial statement under section 3515 of title 31, United States Code, that military department and Defense Agency shall be treated separately from the Department of Defense for purposes of application of this section.
                     
                  
                  
                     (b)
                     Definitions
                     In this section:
                     
                        (1)
                        The terms financial statement and external independent auditor have the meanings given those terms in section 3521(e) of title 31, United States Code.
                     
                     
                        (3)
                        The term unqualified, with respect to the audit status of a financial statement, includes the characterizations clean and unmodified.
                     
                     
                        (2)
                        The term qualified, with respect to the audit status of a financial statement, includes the characterization modified.
                     
                  
                  
                     (c)
                     Adjustments for Financial Accountability
                     
                        (1)
                        In general
                        On March 2 of each fiscal year, the discretionary budget authority available for the Department of Defense (or a military department or Defense Agency covered by subsection (a)(2)) for such fiscal year shall be adjusted as provided in paragraph (2).
                     
                     
                        (2)
                        Adjustment
                        If the Department of Defense (or a military department or Defense Agency covered by subsection (a)(2)) has not submitted a financial statement for the previous fiscal year, or if such financial statement has not received either an unqualified or a qualified audit opinion by an independent external auditor, the discretionary budget authority available for the Department of Defense, the military department, or the Defense Agency (as the case may be) shall be reduced by .5 percent, with the reduction applied proportionately to each account (other than an account listed in subsection (d) or an account for which a waiver is made under subsection (e)).
                     
                     
                        (3)
                        Minimizes national security effects
                        Consistent with applicable laws, the Secretary of Defense may make any reduction under paragraph (2) in a manner that minimizes any effect on national security.
                     
                     
                        (4)
                        Deficit reduction
                        An amount equal to the total amount of any reduction under paragraph (2) shall be retained in the general fund of the Treasury for the purposes of deficit reduction.
                     
                  
                  
                     (d)
                     Accounts excluded
                     The following accounts are excluded from any reductions referred to in subsection (c)(2):
                     
                        (1)
                        Military personnel, reserve personnel, and National Guard personnel accounts of the Department of Defense.
                     
                     
                        (2)
                        The Defense Health Program account of the Department of Defense.
                     
                  
                  
                     (e)
                     Waiver
                     The President may waive subsection (c)(2) with respect to an account if the President certifies that applying the subsection to that account would harm national security or members of the Armed Forces who are deployed in combat zones.
                  
                  
                     (f)
                     Report
                     Not later than 60 days after an adjustment under subsection (c), the Director of the Office of Management and Budget shall submit to Congress a report describing the amount and account of each adjustment.
                  
               
               
                  1006.
                  OVERSIGHT REQUIREMENTS FOR FINANCIAL IMPROVEMENT AND AUDIT REMEDIATION PLAN
                  Section 240b(b) of title 10, United States Code, is amended—
                  
                     (1)
                     in paragraph (1)(A), by inserting , the Committee on Oversight and Accountability of the House of Representatives, and the Committee on Homeland Security and Governmental Affairs of the Senate after congressional defense committees; and
                  
                  
                     (2)
                     in paragraph (2)—
                     
                        (A)
                        by amending the paragraph heading to read as follows: 
                              Briefings
                           ; and
                     
                     
                        (B)
                        by adding at the end the following new subparagraph:
                        
                           
                              (C)
                              Not later than June 30, 2025, and annually thereafter, the Under Secretary of Defense (Comptroller) shall provide to the Committee on Oversight and Accountability of the House of Representatives and the Committee on Homeland Security and Governmental Affairs of the Senate a briefing on the status of the corrective action plan. Such briefing shall include an assessment of the progress of the Secretary of Defense in achieving an unqualified audit opinion as described in subsection (a)(2)(iv)
                           
                           .
                        
                     
                  
               
               
                  1006A.
                  USE OF TECHNOLOGY USING ARTIFICIAL INTELLIGENCE TO FACILITATE AUDIT OF THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS OF THE DEPARTMENT OF DEFENSE FOR FISCAL YEAR 2025
                  
                     (a)
                     Use of ai technology for audits
                     The Secretary of Defense and the Secretaries of the Army, Navy, and Air Force shall encourage, to the greatest extent practicable, the use of technology that uses artificial intelligence or machine learning for the purpose of facilitating audits of the financial statements of the Department of Defense.
                  
                  
                     (b)
                     Implementation of ai technology for audits
                     The Director of the Chief Digital and Artificial Intelligence Office of the Department, in coordination with the Under Secretary of Defense for Research and Engineering and the Inspector General of the Department, shall oversee the adoption of artificial intelligence and machine learning technologies in support of financial management and enterprise business operations.
                  
                  
                     (c)
                     Briefing
                     Not later than 180 days after the date of the enactment of this Act, the Secretary of Defense shall provide to the Committees on Armed Services of the Senate and House of Representatives a briefing that includes a description of the use of artificial intelligence or machine learning technologies as described in (a) and (b), including an update on the implementation of the strategy titled 2023 Data, Analytics, and Artificial Intelligence Adoption Strategy and dated June 27, 2023.
                  
               
            
            
               B
               Counterdrug Activities
               
                  1007.
                  MODIFICATION TO TYPES OF SUPPORT FOR COUNTERDRUG ACTIVITIES AND ACTIVITIES TO COUNTER TRANSNATIONAL ORGANIZED CRIME
                  Section 284(b)(6)(A) of title 10, United States Code, is amended by striking within 25 miles of and.
               
               
                  1008.
                  SUPPORT FOR COUNTERDRUG ACTIVITIES AFFECTING FLOW OF DRUGS INTO UNITED STATES
                  Not later than 90 days after the date of the enactment of this Act, the Secretary shall prescribe Department-wide guidance that establishes support for counterdrug activities and programs affecting the flow of drugs into the United States as the principal foreign counterdrug program priority of the Department. 
               
               
                  1009.
                  REPORT ON DEPARTMENT OF DEFENSE OPERATIONAL PLANNING TO DEFEAT MEXICAN DRUG CARTELS
                  
                     (a)
                     In general
                     Not later than 90 days after the date of the enactment of this Act, the Secretary of Defense, in consultation with the heads of such other departments and agencies as the Secretary determines appropriate, shall submit to the appropriate congressional committees a report on Department of Defense operational planning to defeat Mexican drug cartels. Such report shall include the following elements:
                     
                        (1)
                        A history of Mexican military operations against transnational criminal organizations, including—
                        
                           (A)
                           areas of operations;
                        
                        
                           (B)
                           operations against high value targets; and,
                        
                        
                           (C)
                           after-action reviews of operations.
                        
                     
                     
                        (2)
                        An assessment of Mexican military assets and capabilities, including—
                        
                           (A)
                           unit-specific leadership assessments;
                        
                        
                           (B)
                           unit-specific strengths;
                        
                        
                           (C)
                           unit-specific weaknesses;
                        
                        
                           (D)
                           unit-specific readiness; and,
                        
                        
                           (E)
                           unit-specific susceptibility to corruption or cooperation with transnational criminal organizations.
                        
                     
                     
                        (3)
                        An identification of any gaps in Mexican military assets and capabilities for which the United States Armed Forces could provide additional resources to assist in the defeat of Mexican drug cartels.
                     
                     
                        (4)
                        A description of operational plans to militarily defeat Mexican drug cartels with varying levels of coordination and cooperation with the Mexican military.
                     
                     
                        (5)
                        An assessment of additional steps that would be necessary to secure a military victory after the military defeat of such cartels.
                     
                  
                  
                     (b)
                     Form of report
                     The report required under subsection (a) shall be submitted in classified form.
                  
                  
                     (c)
                     Appropriate congressional committees
                     In this section the term appropriate congressional committees means—
                     
                        (1)
                        the congressional defense committee;
                     
                     
                        (2)
                        the Committee on Foreign Affairs and the Permanent Select Committee on Intelligence of the House of Representatives; and
                     
                     
                        (3)
                        the Committee on Foreign Relations and the Select Committee on Intelligence of the Senate.
                     
                  
               
               
                  1010.
                  MODIFICATION TO TYPES OF SUPPORT FOR COUNTERDRUG ACTIVITIES AND ACTIVITIES TO COUNTER TRANSNATIONAL ORGANIZED CRIME
                  Section 284(b)(6)(A) of title 10, United States Code, is amended by inserting or within the joint operating area of Joint Interagency Task Force South after United States.
               
               
                  1010A.
                  SALE OR DONATION OF EXCESS DEPARTMENT OF DEFENSE PERSONAL PROPERTY FOR DRUG SURVEILLANCE AND INTERDICTION
                  Section 2576a(d) of title 10, United States Code, is amended—
                  
                     (1)
                     by striking the highest and inserting a high; and
                  
                  
                     (2)
                     by striking In considering and inserting (1) In considering applications for the transfer of personal property under this section, the Secretary shall give the highest preference to applications indicating that the transferred property will be used in counterdrug surveillance and interdiction by local, tribal, and territorial law enforcement agencies within 100 miles of the United States-Mexico border that have an annual budget of not more than $200,000,000.
                     
                     
                        
                           (2)
                           In considering
                        
                        .
                     
                  
               
            
            
               C
               Naval Vessels and Shipyards
               
                  1011.
                  ASSESSMENT REQUIRED IN THE EVENT OF A PROPOSED REDUCTION IN BATTLE FORCE SHIPS AS PART OF THE ANNUAL NAVAL VESSEL CONSTRUCTION PLAN AND CERTIFICATION
                  Section 231 of title 10, United States Code, is amended—
                  
                     (1)
                     by redesignating subsection (g) as subsection (h); and
                  
                  
                     (2)
                     by inserting after subsection (f) the following new subsection:
                     
                        
                           (g)
                           Reduction in battle force ships
                           
                              (1)
                              If the plan and certification submitted under subsection (a) for a fiscal year include a reduction in the number of battle force ships during the ten-year period following the submission of the plan, as compared to the number of such ships included in the plan and certification for the preceding fiscal year, the Secretary of Defense shall submit with the plan and assessment an additional assessment that includes each of the following:
                              
                                 (A)
                                 A description of how the proposed reduction would support the national security strategy of the United States.
                              
                              
                                 (B)
                                 An identification of the total amount of resources that have been previously allocated for the ship that is no longer being requested, including funds for research, development, test, and evaluation specific to the ship, advance procurement, advanced construction, and economic order quantity.
                              
                              
                                 (C)
                                 An identification of the total amount of resources the industrial base has allocated to support the ship that is no longer being requested.
                              
                              
                                 (D)
                                 An analysis of the effect such reduction is likely to have on the industrial base, including the sub-tier supplier base.
                              
                              
                                 (E)
                                 An analysis of the effect of the reduction on the overall requirement for the class of ship that was reduced.
                              
                           
                           
                              (2)
                              
                                 (A)
                                 If an additional assessment is required to be submitted under paragraph (1) for a fiscal year and the Secretary of Defense does not include such assessment with the defense budget materials for the fiscal year, not more than 75 percent of the funds referred to in subparagraph (B) may be obligated or expended until the Secretary submits the additional assessment.
                              
                              
                                 (B)
                                 The funds referred to in this paragraph are any funds made available to the Secretary of Defense for executive travel that remain available for obligation or expenditure as of the date on which the plan and certification under subsection (a) and the plan and certification under subsection (d) are required to be submitted.
                              
                           
                        
                        .
                     
                  
               
               
                  1012.
                  MINIMUM NUMBER OF PUBLIC NAVAL SHIPYARDS
                  Section 8062 of title 10, United States Code, is amended—
                  
                     (1)
                     by redesignating subsections (f) through (h) as subsections (f) though (i), respectively;
                  
                  
                     (2)
                     by inserting after subsection (e), the following new subsection (f):
                     
                        
                           (f)
                           The Secretary of the Navy shall operate not less than four public naval shipyards.
                        
                        ; and
                     
                  
                  
                     (3)
                     in subsection (i), as so redesignated—
                     
                        (A)
                        by striking section, the and all that follows through the period at the end and inserting section:; and
                     
                     
                        (B)
                        by adding at the end the following new paragraphs:
                        
                           
                              (1)
                              The term amphibious warfare ship means a ship that is classified as an amphibious assault ship (general purpose) (LHA), an amphibious assault ship (multi-purpose) (LHD), an amphibious transport dock (LPD), or a dock landing ship (LSD).
                           
                           
                              (2)
                              The term public naval shipyard means a naval shipyard operated by the Navy as of January 1, 2024.
                           
                           .
                        
                     
                  
               
               
                  1013.
                  MODIFICATIONS TO SHIP REPAIR AUTHORITIES
                  
                     (a)
                     Definition of short-term work for purposes of navy construction of combatant and escort vessels and assignment of vessel projects
                     Section 8669a(c)(4) of title 10, United States Code, is amended by striking 10 months and inserting 18 months.
                  
                  
                     (b)
                     Study on price differentials used in navy ship repair solicitations
                     
                        (1)
                        In general
                        Subject to the availability of appropriations, the Secretary of the Navy shall seek to enter into an agreement with a federally funded research and development center to conduct a study to assess whether relevant price differentials used by the Navy in ship repair solicitations accurately reflect the true market value of the activity undertaken to complete the repair work involved in the absence of any such differential.
                     
                     
                        (2)
                        Elements
                        The study under paragraph (1) shall address all relevant price differentials used by the Navy in ship repair solicitations, including—
                        
                           (A)
                           the use of Government-owned and operated dry docks;
                        
                        
                           (B)
                           the use of inter-port differentials; and
                        
                        
                           (C)
                           the use of pier differentials.
                        
                     
                     
                        (3)
                        Reports
                        
                           (A)
                           Ffrdc report
                           The federally funded research and development center that conducts the study under paragraph (1) shall submit to the Secretary of the Navy a report on the results of the study.
                        
                        
                           (B)
                           Submittal to congress
                           Not later than September 30, 2025, the Secretary of the Navy shall submit to the congressional defense committees an unaltered copy of the report received by the Secretary under subparagraph (A) together with a separate statement of the views of the Secretary on the results of the study conducted under paragraph (1).
                        
                     
                  
                  
                     (c)
                     Report on navy policy for soliciting coastwide bids for certain repair availabilities
                     
                        (1)
                        In general
                        Not later than March 30, 2025, the Secretary of the Navy shall submit to the congressional defense committees a report on the policy of the Navy for soliciting coastwide bids for repair availabilities longer than 10 months.
                     
                     
                        (2)
                        Elements
                        The report under paragraph (1) shall include an explanation and assessment of each of the following:
                        
                           (A)
                           The intent of the policy described in paragraph (1).
                        
                        
                           (B)
                           The data the Navy uses to assess the efficacy of such policy.
                        
                        
                           (C)
                           How the Navy estimates the cost of moving vessels out of their home port to complete the availability and the actual cost of moving vessels out of their home port to complete the availability.
                        
                        
                           (D)
                           How the Navy estimates the financial, labor force, member of the Armed Forces and family well-being, berthing, and related costs associated with moving a vessel out of its home port to complete a repair availability longer than 10 months.
                        
                     
                  
               
               
                  1014.
                  CONGRESSIONAL CERTIFICATION REQUIRED PRIOR TO START OF CONSTRUCTION ON FIRST SHIP OF A SHIPBUILDING PROGRAM
                  Section 8669c(a)(3) of title 10, United States Code, is amended by inserting 100 percent before complete. 
               
               
                  1015.
                  ASSESSMENTS REQUIRED PRIOR TO START OF CONSTRUCTION ON FIRST SHIP OF A SHIPBUILDING PROGRAM
                  Section 8669c of title 10, United States Code, is amended—
                  
                     (1)
                     in subsection (a)—
                     
                        (A)
                        in paragraph (2), by striking and at the end;
                     
                     
                        (B)
                        in paragraph (3), by striking the period at the end and inserting ; and; and
                     
                     
                        (C)
                        by adding at the end the following new paragraph:
                        
                           
                              (4)
                              certifies to the congressional defense committees that for each block of the ship’s construction, the detail design will be completed.
                           
                           ;
                        
                     
                  
                  
                     (2)
                     in subsection (b), by adding at the end the following new paragraphs:
                     
                        
                           (7)
                           For first ships and subsequent ships, the plan of the Navy to oversee and document the completion of the detail design for each block of the ship’s construction before construction of such block begins.
                        
                        
                           (8)
                           The extent to which information provided by a vendor to support the overall maturity and stability of a ship’s design is complete before construction on the ship begins, including with respect to information that confirms—
                           
                              (A)
                              vendor selection is complete for major distributive systems and key equipment supporting operational requirements of the ship;
                           
                           
                              (B)
                              specifications are finalized for such major distributive systems and key equipment; and
                           
                           
                              (C)
                              the status of factory acceptance testing, as applicable, to validate finalized specifications for such major distributive systems and key equipment through manufacturing.
                           
                        
                        ; and
                     
                  
                  
                     (3)
                     in subsection (c)(1)—
                     
                        (A)
                        in the matter preceding subparagraph (A), by striking computer aided models and inserting the completion of 3D computer aided modeling; and
                     
                     
                        (B)
                        in subparagraph (C)—
                        
                           (i)
                           by inserting positions and before routes; and
                        
                        
                           (ii)
                           by inserting all major before distributive systems. 
                        
                     
                  
               
               
                  1016.
                  EXCEPTION TO PROHIBITION OF OVERHAUL, REPAIR, OR MAINTENANCE OF CERTAIN VESSELS IN SHIPYARDS OUTSIDE THE UNITED STATES OR GUAM
                  Section 8680(a)(3) of title 10, United States Code, is amended—
                  
                     (1)
                     by redesignating subparagraphs (A) and (B) as subparagraphs (B) and (C) respectively; and
                  
                  
                     (2)
                     by inserting before subparagraph (B) the following new subparagraph (A):
                     
                        
                           (A)
                           preventive maintenance of a deployed naval vessel lasting not more than 21 days;
                        
                        .
                     
                  
               
               
                  1017.
                  STRATEGY ON DEVELOPMENT OF NAVAL REARM AT SEA CAPABILITY
                  
                     (a)
                     Strategy required
                     Not later than 180 days after the date of the enactment of this Act, the Secretary of Navy shall submit to the congressional defense committees a strategy for delivering a rearm at sea capability to the surface fleet of the United States Navy. Such strategy shall include each of the following:
                     
                        (1)
                        A plan to develop, by not later than three years after the date of the enactment of this Act, the capability to employ transportable rearming mechanism equipment to load missile canisters into MK 41 vertical launch system cells on Navy destroyers operating, including an identification of the current and planned investments of the Navy in technology development to achieve such capability, including the anticipated cost and schedule for such investments.
                     
                     
                        (2)
                        A plan for the key milestone events and associated dates in the development of such capability.
                     
                     
                        (3)
                        A plan to coordinate with allies of the United States that use variants of the United States manufactured MK 41 vertical launch system to jointly procure rearm at sea capabilities.
                     
                     
                        (4)
                        An identification of any courses of action the Secretary is considering other than the plans referred to in paragraphs (1) through (2) to address the gap between the rearm at sea capabilities of the United States and the capabilities of other countries, including the use of uncrewed technologies.
                     
                     
                        (5)
                        Such other matters as the Secretary determines appropriate.
                     
                  
                  
                     (b)
                     Briefing
                      Not later than 90 days after the date of the enactment of this Act, the Secretary of the Navy shall provide to the congressional defense committees a written briefing on the development of the strategy required under (a). 
                  
               
               
                  1018.
                  AUTHORITY TO USE INCREMENTAL FUNDING TO ENTER INTO A CONTRACT FOR THE CONSTRUCTION OF A VIRGINIA-CLASS SUBMARINE
                  
                     (a)
                     In general
                     Amounts authorized to be appropriated by this Act or otherwise made available for the Navy for Shipbuilding and Conversion for fiscal year 2025 may be used by the Secretary of the Navy to enter into an incrementally funded contract for the construction of a Virgina-class submarine.
                  
                  
                     (b)
                     Availability of funds
                     A contract entered into under subsection (a) shall provide that any obligation of the United States to make a payment under the contract is subject to the availability of appropriations for that purpose, and that total liability to the Government for the termination of the contract shall be limited to the total amount of funding obligated at time of termination.
                  
               
               
                  1019.
                  PILOT PROGRAM ON USE OF AUTOMATED INSPECTION TECHNOLOGIES AT SHIPYARDS
                  
                     (a)
                     In general
                     Beginning not later than 90 days after the date of the enactment of this Act, the Secretary of the Navy shall carry out a pilot program on the use of automated inspection technologies at shipyards.
                  
                  
                     (b)
                     Selection of location
                     The Secretary shall select one shipyard at which to carry out the pilot program required under subsection (a) and shall take such steps as may be necessary to minimize the disruption to the operations of the shipyard during the conduct of the pilot program.
                  
                  
                     (c)
                     Elements
                     In carrying out the pilot program required under subsection (a), the Secretary shall—
                     
                        (1)
                        select at least one surface ship as a test platform to collect a comprehensive set of inspection criteria used for defining maintenance requirements;
                     
                     
                        (2)
                        define requirements for the upgrade or overhaul of the information technology infrastructure at the shipyard to ensure compatibility with new technologies implemented under the pilot program;
                     
                     
                        (3)
                        provide for the training of personnel on the operation and maintenance of the automated inspection technologies selected for use during the pilot program;
                     
                     
                        (4)
                        designate an individual who shall be responsible for implementing and overseeing each phase of the pilot program; and
                     
                     
                        (5)
                        recommend a strategic sequencing plan of the pilot program to ensure the execution of necessary information technology upgrades prior to the deployment of robotic systems.
                     
                  
                  
                     (d)
                     Report and Briefings
                     
                        (1)
                        Report
                        Not later than 180 days after the termination of the pilot program under subsection (e), the Secretary shall submit to the congressional defense committees a report on the results of the pilot program.
                     
                     
                        (2)
                        Briefings
                        Upon completion of the sequencing plan required under subsection (c)(5), the Secretary shall provide to the congressional defense committees a briefing on the plan.
                     
                  
                  
                     (e)
                     Termination
                     The authority to carry out a pilot program under this section shall terminate on the date that is three years after the date of the enactment of this Act.
                  
               
               
                  1020.
                  PROHIBITION ON AVAILABILITY OF FUNDS FOR RETIREMENT OF GUIDED MISSILE CRUISERS
                  None of the funds authorized to be appropriated by this Act or otherwise made available for fiscal year 2025 for the Department of Defense may be obligated or expended retire, prepare to retire, inactivate, or place in storage—
                  
                     (1)
                     the USS Shilo (CG 67);
                  
                  
                     (2)
                     the USS Lake Erie (CG 70); or
                  
                  
                     (3)
                     more than two other guided missile cruisers.
                  
               
               
                  1021.
                  SENSE OF CONGRESS REGARDING NAMING WARSHIPS AFTER NAVY MEDAL OF HONOR RECIPIENTS
                  It is the sense of Congress that the Secretary of the Navy should name warships after Navy recipients of the Medal of Honor from World War I to the present, who have not had a vessel named in their honor, as follows:
                  
                     (1)
                     Tedford H. Cann.
                  
                  
                     (2)
                     Ora Graves.
                  
                  
                     (3)
                     John MacKenzie.
                  
                  
                     (4)
                     Patrick McGunigal.
                  
                  
                     (5)
                     John H. Balch.
                  
                  
                     (6)
                     Joel T. Boone.
                  
                  
                     (7)
                     Jesse W. Covington.
                  
                  
                     (8)
                     Edouard Izac.
                  
                  
                     (9)
                     David E. Hayden.
                  
                  
                     (10)
                     Alexander G. Lyle.
                  
                  
                     (11)
                     Francis E. Ormsbee, Jr.
                  
                  
                     (12)
                     Orlando H. Petty.
                  
                  
                     (13)
                     Oscar Schmidt, Jr.
                  
                  
                     (14)
                     Daniel A. J. Sullivan.
                  
                  
                     (15)
                     Frank M. Upton.
                  
                  
                     (16)
                     John O. Siegel.
                  
                  
                     (17)
                     Henry Breault.
                  
                  
                     (18)
                     Thomas J. Ryan.
                  
                  
                     (19)
                     George R. Cholister.
                  
                  
                     (20)
                     Thomas Eadie.
                  
                  
                     (21)
                     William R. Huber.
                  
                  
                     (22)
                     William Badders.
                  
                  
                     (23)
                     James H. McDonald.
                  
                  
                     (24)
                     John Mihalowski.
                  
                  
                     (25)
                     Samuel G. Fuqua.
                  
                  
                     (26)
                     William E. Hall.
                  
                  
                     (27)
                     Herbert Schonland.
                  
                  
                     (28)
                     Nathan G. Gordon.
                  
                  
                     (29)
                     Arthur M. Preston.
                  
                  
                     (30)
                     Eugene B. Fluckey.
                  
                  
                     (31)
                     Robert Bush.
                  
                  
                     (32)
                     Rufus G. Herring.
                  
                  
                     (33)
                     Franklin J. Pierce.
                  
                  
                     (34)
                     George L. Street.
                  
                  
                     (35)
                     George E. Wahlen.
                  
                  
                     (36)
                     William L. McGonagle.
                  
                  
                     (37)
                     Thomas G. Kelley.
                  
                  
                     (38)
                     Joseph R. Kerrey.
                  
                  
                     (39)
                     Thomas R. Norris.
                  
                  
                     (40)
                     Michael E. Thornton.
                  
                  
                     (41)
                     Britt K. Slabinski.
                  
                  
                     (42)
                     Edward Byers, Jr.
                  
               
               
                  1022.
                  STUDY RELATED TO RECRUITMENT AND RETENTION OF APPRENTICES AT PUBLIC SHIPYARDS
                  Not later than 180 days after the date of the enactment of this Act, the Commander of United States Naval Sea Systems Command shall conduct a study to—
                  
                     (1)
                     summarize data relating to the recruitment and retention of apprentices across the four public shipyards, disaggregated by shipyard, including—
                     
                        (A)
                        demographic information on applicants for apprenticeships;
                     
                     
                        (B)
                        recruiting incentives offered to the applicants;
                     
                     
                        (C)
                        apprenticeship completion rates for accepted applicants;
                     
                     
                        (D)
                        the average duration of service for graduates of an apprenticeship; and
                     
                     
                        (E)
                        reasons why individuals voluntarily left the apprentice program or the Navy after completing the apprenticeship program; and
                     
                  
                  
                     (2)
                     determine the feasibility of—
                     
                        (A)
                        sharing apprenticeship application data across all four public shipyards;
                     
                     
                        (B)
                        allowing an apprentice to start an apprenticeship program in one such shipyard and finish the in another such shipyard;
                     
                     
                        (C)
                        allowing an apprentice to enter and complete an apprenticeship program in one such shipyard but serve in another such shipyard upon completion of the four year training program; and
                     
                     
                        (D)
                        allowing such a shipyard to train an individual who, upon completion of the training, would be required to serve in a another such shipyard but would have the right to return to the shipyard where they received such training after serving for 4 years at the other shipyard.
                     
                  
               
               
                  1023.
                  SENSE OF CONGRESS REGARDING NAMING OF NAVAL VESSEL AFTER LIEUTENANT GENERAL RICHARD E. CAREY
                  
                     (a)
                     Sense of Congress
                     It is the sense of Congress that the Secretary of the Navy should name the Spearhead-class expeditionary fast transport vessel of the United States Navy that has been ordered (Hull Number T-EPF-16) in honor of Lieutenant General Richard E. Carey for the acts of valor described in subsection (b).
                  
                  
                     (b)
                     Acts of valor
                     The acts of valor described in this subsection are as follows:
                     
                        (1)
                        Lieutenant General Richard E. Carey participated in the Inchon Landing, captured communist forces, and led his rifle platoon to Seoul. Three months later, on East Hill at the Chosin Reservoir, Carey hurled grenades at Chinese forces. Carey and his fellow Marines were outnumbered eight to one. They held their ground and broke through the Chinese trap to the sea.
                     
                     
                        (2)
                        Carey remained in the fight until March 1951. While commanding a platoon of machine gunners, Carey was badly wounded. He continued leading his troops and initially refused to get aid for his injuries. Carey’s wounds required hospitalization. During 189 days in Korea, Carey had seven near-death experiences. As a result of his actions in Korea, Carey received the Silver Star, Bronze Star, and Purple Heart. 
                     
                     
                        (3)
                        Returning to the United States, Carey earned a flight training slot and became a fighter pilot. In the early 1960s Carey scouted Marine airfield sites in Vietnam. He returned to Vietnam in the summer of 1967 and served during the Tet offensive. Carey flew 204 combat sorties earning the Distinguished Flying Cross and 16 Air Medals.
                     
                  
               
               
                  1024.
                  SENSE OF CONGRESS REGARDING NAMING OF NAVAL VESSEL AFTER MAJOR JAMES CAPERS, JR.
                  
                     (a)
                     Sense of Congress
                     It is the sense of Congress that the Secretary of the Navy should name a vessel of the United States Navy the U.S.S. Major James Capers Jr. in honor of Major James Capers, Jr., for the acts of valor described in subsection (b).
                  
                  
                     (b)
                     Acts of valor described
                     The acts of valor described in this subsection are the actions of James Capers, Jr., as a member of the Marine Corps, during the period of March 31 through April 3, 1967, during the Vietnam War, for which he was previously awarded the Silver Star.
                  
               
               
                  1025.
                  SENSE OF CONGRESS REGARDING NAMING A NAVAL VESSEL AFTER WILLIAM B. GOULD
                   It is the sense of Congress that the Secretary of the Navy should name a commissioned naval vessel after formerly enslaved sailor and Civil War veteran, William B. Gould, to honor his strength of character and faithful service to the United States.
               
            
            
               D
               Counterterrorism
               
                  1031.
                  EXTENSION OF PROHIBITION ON USE OF FUNDS FOR TRANSFER OR RELEASE OF INDIVIDUALS DETAINED AT UNITED STATES NAVAL STATION, GUANTANAMO BAY, CUBA, TO THE UNITED STATES
                  Section 1033 of the John S. McCain National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2019 (Public Law 115–232; 132 Stat. 1953) is amended by striking December 31, 2024 and inserting December 31, 2025.
               
               
                  1032.
                  EXTENSION OF PROHIBITION ON USE OF FUNDS TO CONSTRUCT OR MODIFY FACILITIES IN THE UNITED STATES TO HOUSE DETAINEES TRANSFERRED FROM UNITED STATES NAVAL STATION, GUANTANAMO BAY, CUBA
                   Section 1034(a) of the John S. McCain National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2019 (Public Law 115–232; 132 Stat. 1954) is amended by striking December 31, 2024 and inserting December 31, 2025.
               
               
                  1033.
                  EXTENSION OF PROHIBITION ON USE OF FUNDS FOR TRANSFER OR RELEASE OF INDIVIDUALS DETAINED AT UNITED STATES NAVAL STATION, GUANTANAMO BAY, CUBA, TO CERTAIN COUNTRIES
                  Section 1035 of the John S. McCain National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2019 (Public Law 115–232; 132 Stat. 1954) is amended by striking December 31, 2024 and inserting December 31, 2025.
               
               
                  1034.
                  EXTENSION OF PROHIBITION ON USE OF FUNDS TO CLOSE OR RELINQUISH CONTROL OF UNITED STATES NAVAL STATION, GUANTANAMO BAY, CUBA
                  Section 1036 of the National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2018 (Public Law 115–91; 131 Stat. 1551) is amended by striking fiscal years 2018 through 2024 and inserting fiscal years 2018 through 2025.
               
            
            
               E
               Miscellaneous Authorities and Limitations
               
                  1041.
                  AUTHORITY TO CONTRIBUTE TO INNOVATION FUND
                  Subchapter II of chapter 138 of title 10, United States Code, is amended by adding at the end the following new section:
                  
                     
                        2350s.
                        AUTHORITY TO CONTRIBUTE TO INNOVATION FUND
                        
                           (a)
                           Authority to contribute to NATO innovation fund
                           Within amounts authorized by law for such purpose during the 10-year period following the date of the enactment of the National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2025, the Secretary of Defense may contribute to the NATO Innovation Fund a total amount of no more than $200,000,000.
                        
                        
                           (b)
                           Definitions
                           In this section:
                           
                              (1)
                              The term NATO means the North Atlantic Treaty Organization.
                           
                           
                              (2)
                              The term NATO Innovation Fund means the multi-sovereign, investment venture capital fund of NATO that provides secure investment in dual-use, high-impact technology.
                           
                        
                     
                     .
                  
               
               
                  1042.
                  EXTENSION OF AUTHORIZATION OF EXPENDITURE OF FUNDS FOR DEPARTMENT OF DEFENSE INTELLIGENCE AND COUNTERINTELLIGENCE ACTIVITIES
                  Section 1057 of the National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2020 (Public Law 116–92) is amended—
                  
                     (1)
                     in subsection (a), by striking 2025 and inserting 2030;
                  
                  
                     (2)
                     in subsection (d), by striking 2025 and inserting 2030; and
                  
                  
                     (3)
                     in subsection (e), by striking $100,000 and inserting $125,000. 
                  
               
               
                  1043.
                  EXTENSION OF AUTHORITY FOR REIMBURSEMENT OF EXPENSES FOR CERTAIN NAVY MESS OPERATIONS
                  Section 1014 of the Duncan Hunter National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2009 (Public Law 110–417; 122 Stat. 4585), as most recently amended by section 1028 of the National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2021 (Public Law 116–283; 134 Stat. 3388), is further amended—
                  
                     (1)
                     in subsection (b), by striking September 30, 2025 and inserting September 30, 2030; and
                  
                  
                     (2)
                     by striking subsection (c).
                  
               
               
                  1044.
                  PROHIBITION ON REALIGNMENT OR REDUCTION OF SPECIAL OPERATIONS FORCES END STRENGTH AUTHORIZATIONS
                  
                     (a)
                     Prohibition
                     During the covered period, the Secretary of Defense and the Secretaries of each of the military departments may not realign or reduce special operations forces end strength authorizations.
                  
                  
                     (b)
                     Definitions
                     In this section:
                     
                        (1)
                        The term covered period means the two-year period beginning on January 1, 2025.
                     
                     
                        (2)
                        The term special operations forces means the forces identified under section 167(j) of title 10, United States Code, or a member of the Armed Forces carrying out special operations activities.
                     
                     
                        (3)
                        The term special operations activities means activities described in section 167(k) of title 10, United States Code, and includes any support services provided for the execution such activities, including logistics, communications, and intelligence activities.
                     
                  
               
               
                  1045.
                  PROHIBITION ON USE OF FUNDS FOR WORK PERFORMED BY ECOHEALTH ALLIANCE, INC., IN CHINA ON RESEARCH SUPPORTED BY THE GOVERNMENT OF CHINA
                  
                     (a)
                     In general
                     Except as provided under subsection (b), none of the funds authorized to be appropriated by this Act or otherwise made available for fiscal year 2025 for the Department of Defense may be used to fund any work to be performed by EcoHealth Alliance, Inc., in China on research supported by the government of China, including to provide any grants for such purpose.
                  
                  
                     (b)
                     Waiver
                     The Secretary of Defense may waive the prohibition under subsection (a) if the Secretary determines that such a waiver is in the national security interests of the United States and, not later than 14 days after granting such a waiver, submits to the congressional defense committees a detailed justification for the waiver, including—
                     
                        (1)
                        an identification of the Department of Defense entity obligating or expending the funds;
                     
                     
                        (2)
                        an identification of the amount of such funds;
                     
                     
                        (3)
                        an identification of the intended purpose of such funds;
                     
                     
                        (4)
                        an identification of the recipient or prospective recipient of such funds (including any third-party entity recipient, as applicable);
                     
                     
                        (5)
                        an explanation for how the waiver is in the national security interests of the United States; and
                     
                     
                        (6)
                        any other information the Secretary determines appropriate.
                     
                  
               
               
                  1046.
                  PROHIBITION ON TRANSPORTING CURRENCY TO THE TALIBAN AND THE ISLAMIC EMIRATE OF AFGHANISTAN
                  None of the amounts authorized to be appropriated by this Act or otherwise made available to the Department of Defense may be made available for the operation of any aircraft of the Department of Defense to transport currency or other items of value to the Taliban, the Islamic Emirate of Afghanistan, or any subsidiary, agent, or instrumentality of either the Taliban or the Islamic Emirate of Afghanistan.
               
               
                  1047.
                  PROHIBITION ON DEPARTMENT OF DEFENSE USAGE OF TUTOR.COM
                  
                     (a)
                     In general
                     The Secretary of Defense shall—
                     
                        (1)
                        cease offering services through Tutor.com not later than 30 days after the date of the enactment of this Act; and 
                     
                     
                        (2)
                        terminate any business relationships with Tutor.com as soon as legally possible. 
                     
                  
                  
                     (b)
                     Future relationships
                     The Secretary may not enter into any contractual or other relationship with Tutor.com as long as Tutor.com is owned by Primavera Capital Group or any other entity owned or controlled by nationals of the People’s Republic of China.
                  
               
               
                  1048.
                  PROHIBITION ON OPERATION OF CONNECTED VEHICLES DESIGNED, DEVELOPED, MANUFACTURED, OR SUPPLIED BY PERSONS OWNED BY, CONTROLLED BY, OR SUBJECT TO THE JURISDICTION OF A FOREIGN ENTITY OF CONCERN ON DEPARTMENT OF DEFENSE PROPERTY
                  
                     (a)
                     In general
                     No connected vehicle on the list required under subsection (b) may be operated on a military installation or on any other property of the Department of Defense.
                  
                  
                     (b)
                     List required
                     
                        (1)
                        In general
                        The Secretary of Defense shall establish a list of prohibited connected vehicles that—
                        
                           (A)
                           are designed, developed, manufactured, or supplied by persons owned by, controlled by, or subject to the jurisdiction of a foreign entity of concern; and
                        
                        
                           (B)
                           pose an undue or unacceptable risk to national security, as determined by the Secretary.
                        
                     
                     
                        (2)
                        Annual review
                        The Secretary shall review the list required under paragraph (1) not less frequently than once each year and shall make such additions, subtractions, supplements, or amendments to the list as the Secretary determines appropriate. 
                     
                  
                  
                     (c)
                     Definitions
                     In this section:
                     
                        (1)
                        The term connected vehicle—
                        
                           (A)
                           means an automotive vehicle that integrates onboard networked hardware with automotive software systems to communicate via dedicated short-range communication, cellular telecommunications connectivity, satellite communication, or other wireless spectrum connectivity with any other network or device; and
                        
                        
                           (B)
                           includes automotive vehicles, whether personal or commercial, capable of—
                           
                              (i)
                              global navigation satellite system communication for geolocation;
                           
                           
                              (ii)
                              communication with intelligent transportation systems;
                           
                           
                              (iii)
                              remote access or control;
                           
                           
                              (iv)
                              wireless software or firmware updates; or
                           
                           
                              (v)
                              on-device roadside assistance.
                           
                        
                     
                     
                        (2)
                        The term covered undue or unacceptable risk means—
                        
                           (A)
                           an undue risk of sabotage to or subversion of the design, integrity, manufacturing, production, distribution, installation, operation, or maintenance of information and communications technology and services in the United States;
                        
                        
                           (B)
                           an undue risk of catastrophic effects on the security or resiliency of United States critical infrastructure or the digital economy of the United States; or
                        
                        
                           (C)
                           an unacceptable risk to the national security of the United States or the security and safety of United States persons.
                        
                     
                     
                        (3)
                        The term foreign entity of concern has the meaning given such term in section 9901 of the William M. (Mac) Thornberry National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2021 (Public Law 116–283; 15 U.S.C. 4651).
                     
                     
                        (4)
                        The term military installation has the meaning given such term in section 2801(4) of title 10, United States Code.
                     
                  
               
               
                  1049.
                  PROHIBITION ON DEPARTMENT OF DEFENSE TRANSPORT OF PALESTINIAN REFUGEES TO THE UNITED STATES
                  None of the amounts authorized to be appropriated by this Act or otherwise made available to the Department of Defense may be made available for the operation of any aircraft of the Department of Defense to transport Palestinian refugees to the United States. 
               
               
                  1049A.
                  PROHIBITION ON PROMOTION OF CRITICAL RACE THEORY AND ASSOCIATED RACE-BASED THEORIES
                  
                     (a)
                     Protection from critical race theory indoctrination
                     No employee of the Department of Defense or member of the Armed Forces acting in their official capacity may promote, endorse, or advocate for critical race theory or associated race-based theories described in subsection (b) or may compel or train any member of the Armed Forces or employee of the Department of Defense to believe or profess belief in such theories.
                  
                  
                     (b)
                     Associated race-based theories described
                     In this section, the term associated race-based theories includes the following principles:
                     
                        (1)
                        That any race, ethnicity, color, or national origin is inherently superior or inferior to any other race, ethnicity, color, or national origin.
                     
                     
                        (2)
                        That the United States is a fundamentally racist country.
                     
                     
                        (3)
                        That the Declaration of Independence, the Constitution of the United States, or the Federalist Papers are fundamentally racist documents.
                     
                     
                        (4)
                        That an individual’s moral character or worth is determined by the individual’s race, ethnicity, color, or national origin.
                     
                     
                        (5)
                        That an individual, by virtue of the individual’s race, is inherently racist or oppressive, whether consciously or unconsciously.
                     
                     
                        (6)
                        That an individual, by virtue of race, bears collective guilt and is inherently responsible for actions committed in the past by other members of the individual’s race, ethnicity, color, or national origin.
                     
                     
                        (7)
                        That an individual, by virtue of the individual’s race, should be discriminated against or receive adverse treatment to achieve diversity, equity, or inclusion.
                     
                     
                        (8)
                        That an individual should feel discomfort, guilt, or any other form of psychological distress on account of the individual’s race, color, or national origin.
                     
                     
                        (9)
                        That virtues such as merit, excellence, hard work, fairness, neutrality, objectivity, and racial colorblindness are racist or in any way discriminatory, or were created by members of a particular race, color, or national origin to oppress members of another race, color, or national origin. 
                     
                     
                        (10)
                        That to be antiracist requires explicitly or implicitly promoting racial discrimination to advance diversity, equity, and inclusion.
                     
                  
               
               
                  1049B.
                  LIMITATION ON AUTHORITY OF ARMED FORCES TO DETAIN CITIZENS OF THE UNITED STATES
                  Section 1021(b) of the National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2012 (Public Law 112–81; 10 U.S.C. 801 note) is amended, in the matter preceding paragraph (1), by inserting , other than a citizen of the United States, after any person. 
               
               
                  1049C.
                  PROHIBITION ON USE OF FUNDS TO CUT SERVICES PROVIDED AT CERTAIN COMBAT TRAINING READINESS CENTERS
                  None of the funds authorized to be appropriated by this Act or otherwise made available for the Department of Defense for fiscal year 2025 may be used to cut any service provided by a combat training readiness center operated by the Air Force National Guard at any of the following locations:
                  
                     (1)
                     Savannah, Georgia.
                  
                  
                     (2)
                     Gulfport, Mississippi.
                  
                  
                     (3)
                     Alpena, Michigan.
                  
                  
                     (4)
                     Volk Field, Wisconsin.
                  
               
               
                  1049D.
                  ELIMINATION OF DISCRETION OF MILITARY CHAIN OF COMMAND AND SENIOR CIVILIAN LEADERSHIP WITH RESPECT TO DISPLAY OF FLAGS
                  Section 1052(d)(1)(N) of the National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2024 (Public Law 118–31; 10 U.S.C. 2661 note) is amended by striking subparagraph (N).
               
               
                  1049E.
                  PROHIBITION ON USE OF FUNDS FOR BADR ORGANIZATION
                  None of the amounts authorized to be appropriated by this Act or otherwise made available to the Department of Defense for fiscal year 2025 may be made available, directly or indirectly, to the Badr Organization. 
               
               
                  1049F.
                  SUSPENSION OR REVOCATION OF CERTAIN PERMISSIONS TO ACCESS CLASSIFIED INFORMATION
                  
                     (a)
                     In general
                     The Secretary of Defense shall suspend or revoke a security clearance held by a covered individual if such individual has expressed support for a terrorist organization or engaged in a demonstration supporting a terrorist organization. 
                  
                  
                     (b)
                     Definitions
                     In this section:
                     
                        (1)
                        The term covered individual means any—
                        
                           (A)
                           retired or active member of the Armed Forces; or
                        
                        
                           (B)
                           employee of the Department of Defense.
                        
                     
                     
                        (2)
                        The term terrorist organization means any foreign terrorist organization designated by the Secretary of State in accordance with section 219 of the Immigration and Nationality Act (8 U.S.C. 1189), as amended, or those designated by Executive Order 13224. 
                     
                  
               
            
            
               F
               Studies and Reports
               
                  1051.
                  QUADRENNIAL BIODEFENSE POSTURE REVIEW
                  
                     Chapter 2 of title 10, United States Code, is amended by inserting after section 118c the following new section:
                  
                     
                        118d.
                        QUADRENNIAL BIODEFENSE POSTURE REVIEW
                        
                           (a)
                           Strategy and implementation plan required
                           The Secretary of Defense shall every four years conduct a comprehensive examination of the biodefense policies, practices, programs and initiatives of the Department of Defense. 
                        
                        
                           (b)
                           Elements
                           Each review conducted under subsection (a) shall include each of the following:
                           
                              (1)
                              An inventory and assessment of all existing strategies, plans, policies, laws, and interagency agreements related to biodefense, including prevention, deterrence, preparedness, detection, response, attribution, recovery, and mitigation.
                           
                           
                              (2)
                              An identification of the biological threats, including biological warfare, bioterrorism, naturally occurring infectious diseases, and accidental exposures.
                           
                           
                              (3)
                              An identification of the current programs, efforts, or activities of the Department of Defense with respect to preventing the acquisition, proliferation, and use of a biological weapon, preventing an accidental or naturally occurring biological outbreak, and mitigating the effects of a biological epidemic.
                           
                           
                              (4)
                              An identification of the roles and responsibilities of the elements of the Department of Defense, including internal and external coordination procedures, in identifying and sharing information related to, warning of, and protection against, acts of terrorism using biological agents and weapons and accidental or naturally occurring biological outbreaks.
                           
                           
                              (5)
                              An identification of methods in use to address biological attacks with emerging artificial intelligence and cyber capabilities.
                           
                           
                              (6)
                              An identification of related or required capabilities and activities required to support the national biodefense strategy.
                           
                           
                              (7)
                              Recommendations for strengthening and improving the current biodefense capabilities, authorities, and command structures of the Department.
                           
                           
                              (8)
                              Recommendations for improving and formalizing interagency coordination and support mechanisms with respect to providing a robust national biodefense.
                           
                           
                              (9)
                              Any other matters the Secretary of Defense determines necessary.
                           
                        
                        
                           (c)
                           Submittal to Congress
                           Not later than 30 days after the completion of a review under subsection (a), the Secretary shall submit to the congressional defense committees a copy of the review. Each such review shall be submitted in unclassified form, but may include a classified annex.
                        
                     
                     .
                  
               
               
                  1052.
                  CHIEF OF NAVY RESERVE ANNUAL REPORT
                  Section 8083 of title 10, United States Code, is amended by adding at the end the following new subsection:
                  
                     
                        (e)
                        Annual report
                        The Chief of Navy Reserve shall submit to the Secretary of Defense, through the Secretary of the Navy, an annual report on the state of the Navy Reserve and the ability of the Navy Reserve to meet its missions. The report shall be prepared in conjunction with the Chief of Naval Operations and may be submitted in classified and unclassified versions.
                     
                     .
                  
               
               
                  1053.
                  EXTENSION OF ANNUAL REPORT ON CIVILIAN CASUALTIES IN CONNECTION WITH UNITED STATES MILITARY OPERATIONS
                  Section 1057(e) of the National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2018 (Public Law 115–91) is amended by striking seven and inserting 12. 
               
               
                  1054.
                  MOBILITY CAPABILITY REQUIREMENTS STUDY
                  
                     (a)
                     In general
                     Not later than one year after the date of the enactment of this Act, the Commander of the United States Transportation Command, in coordination with the Chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff, the Secretaries of the military departments, and the commanders of the combatant commands, shall conduct a study of the end-to-end, full-spectrum mobility requirements to fulfill the national defense strategy required by section 113(g) of title 10, United States Code, for 2022.
                  
                  
                     (b)
                     Elements of study
                     The study required under subsection (a) shall include each of the following:
                     
                        (1)
                        An assessment of the ability of the programmed airlift aircraft, tanker aircraft, sealift ships, fuel tanker vessels, patient movement forces, and key mobility enablers to meet the integrated strategic and theater mobility requirements in expected strategic environments, as defined by the guidance in such national defense strategy.
                     
                     
                        (2)
                        An identification, quantification, and description of the associated risk-to-mission (as defined by Chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff Manual 3105.01, Joint Risk Analysis) required to fulfill such strategy, including—
                        
                           (A)
                           an assessment of risk-to-mission associated with achieving strategic and operational objectives using the programmed airlift aircraft, tanker aircraft, sealift ships, fuel tanker vessels, patient movement forces, and key mobility enablers; and
                        
                        
                           (B)
                           a description of the combinations of airlift aircraft, tanker aircraft, sealift ships, fuel tanker vessels, patient movement forces, and key mobility enabler requirements and capabilities that provide low, moderate, significant, and high levels of risk-to-mission to fulfill such strategy; and
                        
                        
                           (C)
                           an evaluation of non-mobilized mobility forces to sustain daily competition activities and achieve necessary readiness to fulfill the national defense strategy.
                        
                     
                     
                        (3)
                        An identification of any mobility capability gaps, shortfalls, overlaps, or excesses, including—
                        
                           (A)
                           an assessment of associated risks with respect to the ability to conduct operations; and
                        
                        
                           (B)
                           recommended mitigation strategies where possible.
                        
                     
                     
                        (4)
                        The articulation of all key assumptions and decisions made and excursions examined in conducting the study with respect to—
                        
                           (A)
                           risk;
                        
                        
                           (B)
                           programmed forces and infrastructure;
                        
                        
                           (C)
                           the availability of commercial airlift and commercial United States sealift and fuel tanker vessel capabilities and resources, when applicable;
                        
                        
                           (D)
                           aircraft usage rates, aircraft mission availability rates, aircraft mission capability rates, aircrew ratios, aircrew production, and aircrew readiness rates;
                        
                        
                           (E)
                           readiness, crewing, and activation rates for sealift ships and fuel tanker vessels;
                        
                        
                           (F)
                           prepositioning, forward stationing, seabasing, engineering, and infrastructure;
                        
                        
                           (G)
                           demand signals used to represent missions described in the national defense strategy for 2022, in competition and wartime;
                        
                        
                           (H)
                           concurrency and global integration of demand signals;
                        
                        
                           (I)
                           integrated global presence and basing strategy;
                        
                        
                           (J)
                           host nation or third-country support;
                        
                        
                           (K)
                           adversary actions to degrade and disrupt United States mobility operations;
                        
                        
                           (L)
                           adversary actions that threaten freedom of navigation on international waterways, including attacks on foreign ships and crews;
                        
                        
                           (M)
                           aircraft being used for training or undergoing depot maintenance or modernization or ships undergoing depot maintenance;
                        
                        
                           (N)
                           patient movement and mobility enabling forces availability, readiness, and use;
                        
                        
                           (O)
                           logistics concept of operations, including any maneuver and sustainment support concepts, methods, combat support forces, and combat service support forces, that are required to enable the projection and enduring support to forces both deployed and in combat for each analytic scenario;
                        
                        
                           (P)
                           anticipated attrition rates for the assessed force structure; and
                        
                        
                           (Q)
                           such other matters as the Commander determines appropriate.
                        
                     
                     
                        (5)
                        Such other elements as the Commander determines appropriate.
                     
                  
                  
                     (c)
                     Reports and briefings
                     
                        (1)
                        Interim report and briefing
                        Not later than six months after the date of the enactment of this Act, the Commander of the United States Transportation Command, in coordination with the Chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff, the Secretaries of the military departments, and the commanders of the combatant commands, shall—
                        
                           (A)
                           submit to the congressional defense committees an interim report on the study required under subsection (a); and
                        
                        
                           (B)
                           provide to such committees a briefing on the report.
                        
                     
                     
                        (2)
                        Final report and briefing
                        Not later than one year after the date of the enactment of this Act, the Commander of the United States Transportation Command, in coordination with the Chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff, the Secretaries of the military departments, and the commanders of the combatant commands, shall—
                        
                           (A)
                           submit to the congressional defense committees a final report on the study required under subsection (a); and
                        
                        
                           (B)
                           provide to such committees a briefing on the report.
                        
                     
                     
                        (3)
                        Form of reports
                        The reports required under paragraphs (1) and (2) shall be submitted in unclassified form, but may include a classified annex.
                     
                  
                  
                     (d)
                     Definition of sealift ship
                     In this section, the term sealift ship includes—
                     
                        (1)
                        theater and strategic platforms; and
                     
                     
                        (2)
                        surge sealift vessels and non-governmental vessels incorporated as part of the maritime logistics enterprise.
                     
                  
               
               
                  1055.
                  PLAN FOR FIELDING AIR BASE AIR DEFENSE SITES AT AIR FORCE INSTALLATIONS
                  
                     (a)
                     Plan required
                     The Secretary of the Air Force, in consultation with the Commander of United States European Command and the Commander of United States Indo-Pacific Command, shall develop a plan to support the fielding of air base air defense sites at Air Force installations and other priority sites.
                  
                  
                     (b)
                     Air base air defense site requirements
                     The plan required under subsection (a) shall include each of the following requirements for each air base air defense site fielded under the plan:
                     
                        (1)
                        Expeditionary mobile protection for dispersed air bases.
                     
                     
                        (2)
                        Fixed protection for primary air bases.
                     
                     
                        (3)
                        Layered kinetic and non-kinetic effects from the surface.
                     
                     
                        (4)
                        Counter-uncrewed aircraft systems.
                     
                     
                        (5)
                        Counter-fixed and rotary wing aircraft.
                     
                     
                        (6)
                        Counter-cruise missiles.
                     
                     
                        (7)
                        Interoperability with joint command and control networks.
                     
                     
                        (8)
                        360-degree active and passive sensors.
                     
                     
                        (9)
                        Systems and software that enable reduced staffing.
                     
                  
                  
                     (c)
                     Fielding requirement
                     The plan required under subsection (a) shall be developed to ensure that—
                     
                        (1)
                        by not later than September 30, 2027, at least four air base air defense sites are fielded; and
                     
                     
                        (2)
                        between 2028 and 2031, at least four air base air defense sites are fielded each year.
                     
                  
                  
                     (d)
                     Site prioritization
                     The Secretary of the Air Force shall select Air Force installations and other sites as prioritized sites where air base air defense sites will be fielded under the plan.
                  
                  
                     (e)
                     Report
                     Not later than March 1, 2025, the Secretary of the Air Force shall submit to the congressional defense committees a report on the plan required under subsection (a).
                  
               
               
                  1056.
                  REVIEW OF EXECUTE ORDERS
                  
                     (a)
                     Review
                     Not later than 60 days after the date of the enactment of this Act, the Secretary of Defense shall review each execute order that permits or would permit operations involving the use of lethal force or a potential use of lethal force and shall identify, for each such execute order—
                     
                        (1)
                        the legal authority or authorities under which the use of lethal force is authorized, or would justify a use of lethal force if specific conditions were to be satisfied, and against whom the lethal force may be used; and
                     
                     
                        (2)
                        the conditions that would need to be satisfied to provide legal justification for any use of lethal force under the execute order that would not be covered by a specific statutory authorization for the use of lethal force.
                     
                  
                  
                     (b)
                     Report
                     Not later than 180 days after the date of the enactment of this Act, the Secretary shall submit to the congressional defense committees a report describing the results of the review conducted under subsection (a). The report shall include the following:
                     
                        (1)
                        A summary of each extant execute order, which includes a detailed description of the purpose of such execute order and the specifications described in paragraphs (1) and (2) of subsection (a).
                     
                     
                        (2)
                        A comparison of matters covered by execute orders involving the use of lethal force or a potential use of lethal force and disclosures reported under section 1264 of the National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2018 (50 U.S.C. 1549) and section 1285 of the National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2020 (50 U.S.C. 1550).
                     
                  
               
               
                  1057.
                  REPORT ON SENSOR AND INTERCEPTOR CAPABILITIES NECESSARY TO DEFEND CRITICAL INFRASTRUCTURE ASSETS
                   Not later than April 1, 2025, the Chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff, in coordination with the Commander of United States Northern Command, shall submit to the Committees on Armed Services of the Senate and House of Representatives a report that contains an identification of any existing or new sensor and interceptor capabilities necessary to defend critical infrastructure assets.
               
               
                  1058.
                  REPORT ON PRICE ELASTICITY OF LABOR SUPPLY AT SHIPYARDS AND SUPPLIER FIRMS
                  
                     (a)
                     In general
                     Not later than 180 days after the date of the enactment of this Act, the Secretary of the Navy shall submit to the congressional defense committees a report on the price elasticity of the labor supply for the industrial base for building and maintaining naval vessels, including—
                     
                        (1)
                        private-sector shipyards; 
                     
                     
                        (2)
                        public-sector naval shipyards; and 
                     
                     
                        (3)
                        supplier firms.
                     
                  
                  
                     (b)
                     Elements
                     The report required by subsection (a) shall include the following: 
                     
                        (1)
                        An assessment of the full cost of hiring and training workers at shipyards and supplier firms. 
                     
                     
                        (2)
                        An assessment of the extent to which retention and attrition of workers at shipyards and supplier firms is related to pay and benefits for those workers. 
                     
                     
                        (3)
                        An assessment of the extent to which challenges in recruiting and retaining desired numbers of workers at shipyards and supplier firms can be met by increasing pay and benefits for those workers.
                     
                     
                        (4)
                        An assessment of the potential impact of such increases in pay and benefits on costs for procuring and maintaining naval vessels.
                     
                     
                        (5)
                        An assessment of and recommendation for any extraordinary relief that may be appropriate for the fixed-price, multi-year procurement contracts for Virginia-class submarines in order to increase pay and benefits for workers at shipyards and supplier firms under those contracts.
                     
                  
                  
                     (c)
                     Contract authority
                     The Secretary of the Navy may contract with a private entity for the preparation of the report required by subsection (a).
                  
               
               
                  1059.
                  STUDY AND REPORT ON IMPLEMENTATION OF NAVAL BLOCKADES OF SHIPMENTS OF FOSSIL FUELS TO CHINA IN EVENT OF ARMED CONFLICT
                  
                     (a)
                     Study and report
                     Not later than 180 days after the date of the enactment of this Act, the Secretary of Defense shall submit to Congress a report that contains the findings of a study on the feasibility of implementing one or more naval blockades of shipments of fossil fuels to China in the event of an armed conflict between the United States and China. Such report shall include—
                     
                        (1)
                        a description of—
                        
                           (A)
                           the requirements for such a blockade to effectively block such shipments;
                        
                        
                           (B)
                           methods China could use to ship fossil fuels using air and land routes after such a blockade is implemented; and
                        
                        
                           (C)
                           for each waterway specified in clauses (i) through (iv) of paragraph (2)(A), how such a blockade would be implemented in such waterway; and
                        
                     
                     
                        (2)
                        an assessment of— 
                        
                           (A)
                           the suitability of strategic waterways in the proximity of China as a location for such a blockade, including—
                           
                              (i)
                              the Strait of Malacca;
                           
                           
                              (ii)
                              the Taiwan Strait;
                           
                           
                              (iii)
                              the Sunda Strait;
                           
                           
                              (iv)
                              the South China Sea; and
                           
                           
                              (v)
                              the East China Sea; and
                           
                        
                        
                           (B)
                           the capability of China to satisfy needs for fossil fuels in China after such a blockade is implemented through methods that include—
                           
                              (i)
                              the use of existing stockpiles of fossil fuels;
                           
                           
                              (ii)
                              the rationing of fossil fuels; and
                           
                           
                              (iii)
                              the reliance on existing or planned cross-border oil and gas pipelines to ship fossil fuels.
                           
                        
                     
                  
                  
                     (b)
                     Form
                     The report required under subsection (a) shall be submitted in unclassified form, but may include a classified annex.
                  
               
               
                  1060.
                  COMPTROLLER GENERAL REVIEW OF FOOD WASTE AT DEPARTMENT OF DEFENSE AND COAST GUARD FACILITIES
                  
                     (a)
                     Review required
                     The Comptroller General of the United States shall conduct a review of food waste at Department of Defense and Coast Guard facilities. The review shall address each of the following:
                     
                        (1)
                        Methods used by the Department and the Coast Guard to track food waste across facilities in the United States.
                     
                     
                        (2)
                        Any analysis conducted by the Department or the Coast Guard to determine the causes of any food waste at such facilities.
                     
                     
                        (3)
                        Any policies of the Department and the Coast Guard with respect to managing food waste.
                     
                     
                        (4)
                        Any challenges faced by the Department and the Coast Guard with respect to food waste and the extent to which actions are in place to address those challenges.
                     
                     
                        (5)
                        The extent to which the Department and the Coast Guard partner with other Federal agencies to reduce food waste.
                     
                     
                        (6)
                        Such other matters as the Comptroller General determines appropriate.
                     
                  
                  
                     (b)
                     Briefing
                     Not later than May 1, 2025, the Comptroller General shall provide to the congressional defense committees a briefing on the review conducted under subsection (a).
                  
               
               
                  1061.
                  STUDY ON FEASIBILITY OF ESTABLISHMENT OF CENTERS OF EXCELLENCE FOR SERVICEWOMEN’S HEALTH
                  
                     (a)
                     Feasibility study required
                     Not later than 180 days after the date of enactment of this Act, the Secretary of Defense, acting through Director of the Defense Health Agency, shall conduct a study on the feasibility of establishing one or more Centers of Excellence for Servicewomen’s Health, pursuant to the authority under section 1073d(b)(4) of title 10, United States Code. 
                  
                  
                     (b)
                     Report
                     Upon the conclusion of the study required under subsection (a), the Secretary shall submit to the Committees on Armed Services of the Senate and House of Representative a report on the findings of the study. Such report shall include the following:
                     
                        (1)
                        An identification of potential locations where Centers of Excellence for Servicewomen’s Health could be established.
                     
                     
                        (2)
                        Any improvements the establishment of such Centers could provide in the furnishing of care for female members of the Armed Forces in the military health system.
                     
                     
                        (3)
                        Any anticipated effects the establishment of such Centers would have on readiness from improved health care services for female members of the Armed Forces.
                     
                     
                        (4)
                        An identification of any challenges or areas that could be improved in the furnishing of health care for female members of the Armed Forces in the military health system.
                     
                  
               
               
                  1062.
                  REPORTS ON APPROVAL AND DEPLOYMENT OF LETHAL AUTONOMOUS WEAPON SYSTEMS
                  
                     (a)
                     In general
                     On an annual basis in accordance with subsection (c), the President shall submit to the congressional defense committees a comprehensive report on the approval and deployment of lethal autonomous weapon systems by the United States.
                  
                  
                     (b)
                     Elements
                     Each report under subsection (a) shall include, with respect to the period covered by the report, the following:
                     
                        (1)
                        A comprehensive list of any lethal autonomous weapon systems that have been approved by senior defense officials for use by the United States military under Department of Defense policies in effect as of the date of the report, the dates of such approvals, and a description how such weapons systems have been, are being, or will be deployed and whether they operated as intended.
                     
                     
                        (2)
                        A comprehensive list of any lethal autonomous weapon systems that have received a waiver of the requirement for review by senior defense officials under Department of Defense policies in effect as of the date of the report, the dates such waivers were issued, and a description of how such weapon systems have been, are being, or will be deployed and whether they operated as intended.
                     
                     
                        (3)
                        A comprehensive list of any lethal autonomous weapon systems that are undergoing senior review or waiver request processes as of the date of the report.
                     
                     
                        (4)
                        A comprehensive list of any lethal autonomous weapon systems not approved during a senior review or waiver request process and the reasons for such disapproval.
                     
                  
                  
                     (c)
                     Timing of reports
                     
                        (1)
                        Initial report
                        The President shall submit the first report required under subsection (a) not later than one year after the date of the enactment of this Act. Such report shall include the information described in subsection (b) for all relevant time periods preceding the date of the report.
                     
                     
                        (2)
                        Subsequent reports
                        Following submittal of the initial report under paragraph (1), the President shall submit subsequent reports under subsection (a) on an annual basis. Each subsequent report shall include the information described in subsection (b) with respect to the period that elapsed since the date of the immediately preceding report.
                     
                  
                  
                     (d)
                     Form
                     Each report under subsection (a) shall be submitted in unclassified form, but may include a classified annex.
                  
               
               
                  1063.
                  REPORT ON FIELDING CERTAIN WEARABLE DEVICES FOR IMPACT PROTECTION AGAINST TRAUMATIC BRAIN INJURY
                  
                     (a)
                     Report required
                     Not later than 120 days after the date of the enactment of this Act, the Secretary of the Army shall submit to the Committees on Armed Services of the Senate and the House of Representatives a report that includes the following:
                     
                        (1)
                        A plan to field wearable devices for impact protection against traumatic brain injury that are certified by the Food and Drug Administration as expeditiously and widely as possible.
                     
                     
                        (2)
                        A plan to field such wearable devices to mitigate traumatic brain injuries associated with blast overpressure, if consistent with the findings of an assessment conducted by the Secretary on the feasibility of such wearable devices.
                     
                     
                        (3)
                        A description of resources required to implement such plans.
                     
                     
                        (4)
                        A description of any restrictions or limitations on usage of such wearable devices, and steps to mitigate such restrictions or limitations.
                     
                     
                        (5)
                        Any other information the Secretary determines relevant.
                     
                  
                  
                     (b)
                     Exception
                     Subsection (a) shall not apply if the Secretary of the Army certifies to the Committees on Armed Services of the Senate and the House of Representatives not later than 90 days after the date of the enactment of this Act that the Department of the Army—
                     
                        (1)
                        has fielded wearable devices described in subsection (a)(1); and
                     
                     
                        (2)
                        has a specific date for a final determination to field wearable devices to mitigate traumatic brain injuries associated with blast overpressure as described in subsection (a)(2).
                     
                  
               
               
                  1064.
                  UTILIZATION OF OFFICE SPACE BY THE DEPARTMENT OF DEFENSE
                  
                     (a)
                     Report to General Services Administration
                     The Secretary of Defense shall annually submit a written report to the Administrator of the General Services Administration that includes the following:
                     
                        (1)
                        Monthly total occupancy of office space.
                     
                     
                        (2)
                        The actual utilization of office space.
                     
                     
                        (3)
                        Monthly space utilization rates.
                     
                     
                        (4)
                        Any other office space utilization data considered important by the Administrator of the General Services Administration. 
                     
                  
                  
                     (b)
                     Finalized procedures for the return of office space to the General Services Administration
                     The Secretary of Defense shall draft and finalize written procedures that provide for the return of office space to the General Services Administration if the occupancy of the Department of Defense falls below a 60 percent space utilization rate for 6 months within any 1-year period. 
                  
                  
                     (c)
                     Exception for intelligence community
                     This section shall not apply to office space properties used by an element of the intelligence community.
                  
                  
                     (d)
                     Definitions
                     In this section:
                     
                        (1)
                        The term actual utilization means the percentage of capacity used based on the space utilization rate.
                     
                     
                        (2)
                        The term capacity means a usable office space calculated by the square feet of such space divided by 150.
                     
                     
                        (3)
                        The term intelligence community has the meaning given such term in section 3 of the National Security Act of 1947 (50 U.S.C. 3003)
                     
                     
                        (4)
                        The term occupancy means the total number of employees performing duties in-person, in office space, at least 5 days per week on a recurring basis.
                     
                     
                        (5)
                        The term space utilization rate means total usable square feet divided by occupancy.
                     
                  
               
               
                  1065.
                  FEASIBILITY STUDY ON ESTABLISHMENT AND MAINTENANCE OF DEPARTMENT OF THE AIR FORCE TRAINING CENTER AT EAKER AIR FORCE BASE, BLYTHEVILLE, ARKANSAS
                  
                     (a)
                     In general
                     Not later than 180 days after the date of enactment of this Act, the Secretary of the Air Force shall submit to the Committees on Armed Services of the Senate and House of Representatives a report on the feasibility and advisability of a reactivation of Eaker Air Force Base in Blytheville, Arkansas to serve as an Air Force Training Center. Such report shall include—
                     
                        (1)
                        an assessment of existing facilities at Eaker Air Force Base, including—
                        
                           (A)
                           runways;
                        
                        
                           (B)
                           taxiways;
                        
                        
                           (C)
                           control towers; and
                        
                        
                           (D)
                           hangars;
                        
                     
                     
                        (2)
                        a strategic assessment of the geography and location of Eaker Air Force Base;
                     
                     
                        (3)
                        the overall cost to the Department of Defense of such reactivation, including annual operations and maintenance costs; and
                     
                     
                        (4)
                        whether, in the event of such reactivation, the National Cold War Center in Blytheville, Arkansas (located in close proximity to former Eaker Air Force Base (BRAC 1991)) poses any logistical or security concerns for the construction of or future training operations;
                     
                  
                  
                     (b)
                     Form
                     The report required by subsection (a) shall be submitted in unclassified form, but may include a classified annex.
                  
               
               
                  1066.
                  REPORT ON ATTEMPTS BY ILLEGAL ALIENS TO ACCESS MILITARY INSTALLATIONS
                  Not later than 180 days after the date of the enactment of this Act, and on an annual basis thereafter, the Secretary of Defense shall submit to the congressional defense committees a report that identifies, with respect to the one-year period preceding the date of the report, the number of instances in which an alien not lawfully present in the United States—
                  
                     (1)
                     attempted to enter a military installation in the United States; or
                  
                  
                     (2)
                     gained entry to such an installation.
                  
               
               
                  1067.
                  STUDY ON USE OF SPACE-AVAILABLE TRAVEL FOR DONATED HUMAN ORGANS
                  
                     (a)
                     Study required
                     The Secretary of Defense shall conduct a feasibility study regarding the transport of human organs, by organ procurement organizations, under the space-available travel program under section 2641b of title 10, United States Code. 
                  
                  
                     (b)
                     Report
                     Not later than September 30, 2025, the Secretary shall submit to the congressional defense committees a report regarding such study, including the determinations of the Secretary.
                  
                  
                     (c)
                     Organ procurement organization defined
                     In this section, the term organ procurement organization has the meaning given such term in section 6 of the Stephanie Tubbs Jones Gift of Life Medal Act of 2008 (Public Law 110–413; 42 U.S.C. 274i–4).
                  
               
               
                  1068.
                  STUDY AND REPORT ON DEPARTMENT OF THE NAVY POLICIES WITH RESPECT TO NET METERING
                  Not later than 180 days the date of the enactment of this Act, the Assistant Secretary of the Navy (Energy, Installations, and Environment) shall carry out a study and submit to the congressional defense committees a report that includes—
                  
                     (1)
                     a summary of the policies and procedures of the Department of the Navy in effect as of the date of the enactment of this Act with respect to net metering;
                  
                  
                     (2)
                     a list of each military installation under the jurisdiction of the Secretary of the Navy that uses net metering as of such date;
                  
                  
                     (3)
                     a summary of best practices developed by each such military installation with respect to encouraging the use of net metering;
                  
                  
                     (4)
                     recommendations of the Secretary of the Navy with respect to potential regulatory and statutory actions to assist the Navy utilize the full benefits of net metering.
                  
               
               
                  1069.
                  BRIEFING ON DEPARTMENT OF DEFENSE PROGRAM TO PROTECT UNITED STATES STUDENTS AGAINST FOREIGN AGENTS
                  Not later than 240 days after the date of the enactment of this section, the Secretary of Defense shall provide a briefing to the congressional defense committees on the program described in section 1277 of the National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2018 (Public Law 115–91), including an assessment on whether the program is beneficial to students interning, working part-time, or in a program that will result in employment post-graduation with Department of Defense components and contractors.
               
               
                  1069A.
                  TRI-SERVICE ARCTIC MARITIME STRATEGY
                  Not later than 12 months after the date of enactment of this Act, the Secretary of the Navy, the Commandant of the Marine Corps, and the Commandant of the Coast Guard shall submit to the Committee on Armed Services and the Committee on Transportation and Infrastructure of the House of Representatives and the Committee on Armed Services of the Senate a report on a Tri-Service Arctic Maritime Strategy outlining areas of cooperation and alignment within the Arctic region to combat current and potential threats, and provide guidance on how the 3 branches can deepen integration and pursue joint modernization efforts in this cold-weather landscape. 
               
               
                  1069B.
                  REPORT ON TRAINING AND SAFETY PROGRAM FOR OPERATION OF ASSAULT AMPHIBIOUS VEHICLES
                  Not later than 180 days after the date of the enactment of this Act, the Secretary of the Navy shall submit to the congressional defense committees a report on the feasibility, advisability, and potential benefits of establishing a training and safety program for the operation of assault amphibious vehicles.
               
               
                  1069C.
                  UPDATES TO NATIONAL BIODEFENSE STRATEGY
                  
                     (a)
                     Updates required
                     The Secretary of Defense and the Secretary of Health and Human Services shall revise and update the most recent version of the national biodefense strategy and associated implementation plan required under section 1086 of the National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2017 (Public Law 114–328; 6 U.S.C. 104). In revising and updating the strategy and implementation plan, the Secretaries shall address—
                     
                        (1)
                        current and potential biological threats against the United States, both naturally occurring and man-made, either accidental or deliberate;
                     
                     
                        (2)
                        the potential for catastrophic biological threats; and
                     
                     
                        (3)
                        such other matters as the Secretaries determine appropriate.
                     
                  
                  
                     (b)
                     Report
                     Not later than one year after the date of the enactment of this Act the Secretary of Defense and the Secretary of Health and Human Services shall jointly submit to the appropriate congressional defense committees the updated strategy and implementation plan required under subsection (a).
                  
                  
                     (c)
                     Appropriate congressional committees defined
                     In this section, the term appropriate congressional committees has the meaning given that term in section 1086(f) of the National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2017 (Public Law 114–328; 6 U.S.C. 104).
                  
               
               
                  1069D.
                  REPORT ON MODIFICATIONS OF EXPEDITIONARY TRANSFER DOCK SHIPS
                  Not later than March 1, 2025, the Chief of Naval Operations, in consultation with the Commandant of the Coast Guard, shall submit to the Committee on Armed Services and the Committee on Commerce, Science, and Transportation of the Senate and the Committee on Armed Services and the Committee on Transportation and Infrastructure of the House of Representatives a report on recommended modifications to the Expeditionary Transfer Dock Ships that will best enable at-sea sustainment of Joint Interagency Task Force South partner nation patrol vessels and United States Coast Guard Fast Response Cutters. 
               
               
                  1069E.
                  REPORT ON MILITARY AND WEAPONS LOST DURING WITHDRAWAL FROM AFGHANISTAN
                  The Secretary of Defense shall submit to the congressional defense committees a report that includes an accounting of all the military equipment and weapons lost to the Taliban during the withdrawal of the United States Armed Forces from Afghanistan. 
               
               
                  1069F.
                  ASSESSMENT OF THE HEALTH CARE SYSTEM SUPPORTING MILITARY INSTALLATIONS IN THE R–2508 AIRSPACE
                  
                     (a)
                     Assessment required
                     The Secretary of Defense, in coordination with the Secretaries of the military departments concerned, shall develop an assessment of the health care system supporting the military installations within the R–2508 Airspace to ensure adequate health care for the civilian and military workforce.
                  
                  
                     (b)
                     Report
                     Not later than 60 days after the date of the enactment of this Act, the Secretary of Defense shall submit to the congressional defense committees a report on the results of the assessment conducted under subsection (a). Such report shall include an explanation of—
                     
                        (1)
                        any challenges to the health care system covered by the report within the private and public sector—
                        
                           (A)
                           including any challenges relating to funding and authorization;
                        
                        
                           (B)
                           including any potential obstacles to access health care services for both civilian and military populations;
                        
                        
                           (C)
                           whether there exists a provider shortage for emergency care personnel and certain other specialties; and
                        
                        
                           (D)
                           including consideration of the potential impacts on the mission of the military installations covered by the report;
                        
                     
                     
                        (2)
                        recommendations with respect to legislative proposals to improve such health care system; and
                     
                     
                        (3)
                        the plans of the Secretary to address the issues identified under paragraphs (1) through (2).
                     
                  
               
               
                  1069G.
                  GAO REVIEW AND REPORT ON BIOLOGICAL WEAPONS EXPERIMENTS ON AND IN RELATION TO TICKS, TICK-BORNE DISEASE
                  
                     (a)
                     Review
                     The Comptroller General of the United States shall conduct a review of research conducted during the period beginning on January 1, 1945, and ending on December 31, 1972, by the Department of Defense, including by the Department of Defense in consultation with the National Institutes of Health, the Department of Agriculture, or any other Federal agency on—
                     
                        (1)
                        the use of ticks as hosts or delivery mechanisms for biological warfare agents, including experiments involving Spirochaetales and Rickettsiales; and
                     
                     
                        (2)
                        any efforts to improve the effectiveness and viability of Spirochaetales and Rickettsiales as biological weapons through combination with other diseases or viruses.
                     
                  
                  
                     (b)
                     Location of research
                     In conducting the review under subsection (a), the Comptroller General shall review research conducted at facilities located inside United States and facilities located outside the United States, including laboratories and field work locations.
                  
                  
                     (c)
                     Information to be reviewed
                     
                        (1)
                        Classified information
                        In conducting the review under subsection (a), the Comptroller General shall review any relevant classified information.
                     
                     
                        (2)
                        Documents for review
                        In conducting the review under subsection (a), the Comptroller General shall review, among other sources, the following documents:
                        
                           (A)
                           Technical Reports related to The Summary of Major Events and Problems, US Army Chemical Corps, FY 1951 – FY1969. 
                        
                        
                           (B)
                           Site Holding: CB DT DW 48158 Title: Virus and Rickettsia Waste Disposal Study. Technical Report No. 103, January 1969. Corp Author Name: FORT DETRICK FREDERICK MD Report Number: SMUFD-TR-103 Publish Date: 19690101.
                        
                        
                           (C)
                           Site Holding: CB DT DW 60538 Title: A Plaque Assay System for Several Species of Rickettsia. Corp Author Name: FORT DETRICK FREDERICK MD Report Number: SMUFD-TM-538 Publish Date: 19690601.
                        
                        
                           (D)
                           Site Holding: CB DW 531493 Title: Progress Report for Ecology and Epidemiology and Biological Field Test Technology, Third Quarter FY 1967. Corp Author Name: ARMY DUGWAY PROVING GROUND UT Publish Date: 19670508.
                        
                     
                  
                  
                     (d)
                     Report
                     
                        (1)
                        In general
                        Not later than 18 months after the date of the enactment of this Act, the Comptroller General shall submit to Congress a report that includes the following:
                        
                           (A)
                           The scope of any research described in subsection (a).
                        
                        
                           (B)
                           Whether any ticks used in such research were released outside of any facility (including any ticks that were released unintentionally). 
                        
                        
                           (C)
                           Whether any records related to such research were destroyed, and whether such destruction was intentional or unintentional.
                        
                     
                     
                        (2)
                        Form of report
                        The report required under paragraph (1) shall be submitted in unclassified form, but may contain a classified annex.
                     
                  
               
               
                  1069H.
                  ASSESSMENT OF INFLUENCE OF CHINA IN PACIFIC ISLAND NATIONS
                  Not later than 1 year after the date of the enactment of this section, and each year thereafter, the Director of the Defense Intelligence Agency shall publish in the annual China military power report required by section 1202 of the National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2000 (Public Law 106–65), or other relevant publication, an assessment of the following:
                  
                     (1)
                     Investments and influence of China in Pacific Island nations.
                  
                  
                     (2)
                     How China’s activities have or have not impacted United States military strategy in the Pacific region, as it relates to Pacific Island nations.
                  
               
               
                  1069I.
                  COMPTROLLER GENERAL STUDY ON USE OF UNMANNED VEHICLES TO REDUCE DEPARTMENT OF DEFENSE EXPENSES
                  
                     (a)
                     Study
                     The Comptroller General of the United States shall conduct a study to assess ways unmanned vehicles can reduce overall operating expenses and costs at the Department of Defense. Such study shall include—
                     
                        (1)
                        an analysis of unmanned ground and air systems and a comparison of the capability, capacity, and operating cost tradeoffs associated with each such system and those associated with similar manned technologies or systems;
                     
                     
                        (2)
                        recommendations regarding new areas in which unmanned technology could supplant or complement manned systems in order to reduce overall force operating costs; and
                     
                     
                        (3)
                        such other matters as the Comptroller General determines appropriate.
                     
                  
                  
                     (b)
                     Briefing and report
                     Not later than March 31, 2025, the Comptroller General shall—
                     
                        (1)
                        provide to the congressional defense committees a briefing on the preliminary findings of the study required under subsection (a); and
                     
                     
                        (2)
                        agree to a format and timeline for providing to such committees a final report on the study.
                     
                  
               
               
                  1069J.
                  SECRETARY OF DEFENSE REPORT ON THREAT OF RIFLE-TOTING ROBOT DOGS USED BY CHINA TO THE NATIONAL SECURITY OF THE UNITED STATES
                  The Secretary of Defense shall submit to Congress a report on—
                  
                     (1)
                     the use of rifle-toting robot dogs by China; and 
                  
                  
                     (2)
                     the threat such use poses to the national security of the United States.
                  
               
               
                  1069K.
                  STUDY ON TESTING OF FOREIGN ADVERSARY HIGHLY AUTONOMOUS VEHICLES
                  
                     (a)
                     In general
                     Not later than 180 days after the date of enactment of this Act, the Secretary of Defense, in coordination with the relevant Federal agencies, shall conduct a study on the effects on the national security of the United States of highly automated vehicles (as such term is defined in section 503(c)(6) of title 23, United States Code) associated with foreign adversary countries operating or testing in the United States.
                  
                  
                     (b)
                     Matters to be included
                     The study required by subsection (a) shall also include the following:
                     
                        (1)
                        An evaluation of the technology used by highly automated vehicles and their capabilities.
                     
                     
                        (2)
                        A list of entities—
                        
                           (A)
                           domiciled in or directly or indirectly owned, controlled, or directed by a foreign adversary country;
                        
                        
                           (B)
                           that manufacture highly automated vehicles; and
                        
                        
                           (C)
                           are currently operating highly automated vehicles in the United States.
                        
                     
                     
                        (3)
                        The number of highly automated vehicles currently operating in the United States that are owned or operated by such entities. 
                     
                     
                        (4)
                        An evaluation whether any such entity has contracted with or supplied any technology to the military of a foreign adversary country.
                     
                     
                        (5)
                        The locations where highly automated vehicles owned or operated by such entities are operating in the United States. 
                     
                     
                        (6)
                        Potential vulnerabilities posed by the operation of such highly automated vehicles in the United States. 
                     
                  
                  
                     (c)
                     Submission
                     The Secretary of Defense shall submit the results of the study conducted pursuant to subsection (a) to—
                     
                        (1)
                        the Committee on Armed Services, the Committee on Homeland Security and Governmental Affairs, and the Committee on Commerce, Science, and Transportation of the Senate; and
                     
                     
                        (2)
                        the Committee on Armed Services, the Committee on Homeland Security, and the Committee on Energy and Commerce of the House of Representatives.
                     
                  
               
               
                  1069L.
                  REPORT ON EFFECTIVENESS OF THE OPTIMIZING THE HUMAN WEAPON SYSTEM PROGRAM
                  Not later than 180 days after the date of the enactment of this Act, the Secretary of the Army shall submit to the congressional defense committees a report that includes—
                  
                     (1)
                     an analysis of the effectiveness of the Optimizing the Human Weapon System Program of the Army; and
                  
                  
                     (2)
                     recommendations for improving and expanding the Program.
                  
               
               
                  1069M.
                  COMPTROLLER GENERAL STUDY ON DREDGING CAPACITY AND PORT READINESS
                  
                     (a)
                     Study
                     The Comptroller General of the United States shall conduct a study to assess the capability and capacity of Department of Defense to complete harbor and channel dredging at seaports that require such dredging.
                  
                  
                     (b)
                     Elements
                     The study under subsection (a) shall include—
                     
                        (1)
                        identification of any dredging work required by the Department of Defense to ensure deep water access at seaports, set forth separately by seaport;
                     
                     
                        (2)
                        a review of the capacity of the domestic dredging industry to complete the dredging work identified under paragraph (1);
                     
                     
                        (3)
                        an assessment of time required to complete outstanding dredging work at seaports in the Strategic Seaport Program; and
                     
                     
                        (4)
                        development of recommendations for Federal policies, including contracting policies, that may be implemented to support domestic manufacturers of critical components used in the manufacturing of United States dredging vessels, including critical components such as cranes, spring couplings, torque limiters, diesel engine clutches, clutch couplings, wet brakes, and combination gearboxes.
                     
                  
                  
                     (c)
                     Consultation
                     In conducting the study under subsection (a), the Comptroller General shall consult with—
                     
                        (1)
                        the National Port Readiness Network;
                     
                     
                        (2)
                        entities in the United States dredging industry;
                     
                     
                        (3)
                        domestic critical component manufacturers; and
                     
                     
                        (4)
                        such other individuals and entities as the Comptroller General determines appropriate. 
                     
                  
                  
                     (d)
                     Report
                     Not later than 180 days after the date of the enactment of this Act, the Comptroller General shall submit to the congressional defense committees a report on the results of the study conducted under subsection (a). 
                  
               
               
                  1069N.
                  REPORT ON RED FLAGS MISSED IN JANET YAMANAKA MELLO FRAUD SCHEME
                  
                     (a)
                     Report required
                     Not later than one year after the date of the enactment of this Act, the Secretary of Defense shall submit to the Committees on Armed Services of the Senate and the House of Representatives a report on the fraud scheme perpetrated by Janet Yamanaka Mello, a civilian employee of the Department of the Army, who was indicted and pleaded guilty to stealing over $100 million in Army funds.
                  
                  
                     (b)
                     Contents of report
                     The report required under subsection (a) shall include a detailed examination of the following:
                     
                        (1)
                        Breakdown in supervision of Mello, including any failures of management or oversight that contributed to the ability of Mello to carry out the fraud scheme undetected.
                     
                     
                        (2)
                        Breakdown in accountability, including any failures to ensure that funds were actually being spent for their intended purposes.
                     
                     
                        (3)
                        Failure to ensure that financial program managers, such as Mello, cannot funnel money to themselves or their own entities.
                     
                     
                        (4)
                        Any other red flags or warning signs that were missed or ignored, including any instances of whistleblower retaliation or suppression of concerns.
                     
                     
                        (5)
                        An assessment of the current policies and procedures in place to prevent similar fraud schemes from occurring in the future.
                     
                     
                        (6)
                        Recommendations for improvements to policies, procedures, and oversight to prevent similar fraud schemes from occurring in the future.
                     
                     
                        (7)
                        A description of any disciplinary or administrative actions taken against any individuals or entities found to have contributed to the ability of Mello to carry out the fraud scheme.
                     
                     
                        (8)
                        A description of any changes made or planned to be made to the Army's financial management and oversight processes as a result of this incident.
                     
                     
                        (9)
                        An assessment of the impact of the fraud scheme on the Army's programs and operations.
                     
                     
                        (10)
                        Any other information the Secretary of Defense determines relevant to understanding the fraud scheme and preventing similar incidents in the future.
                     
                  
                  
                     (c)
                     Public availability
                     The report required under subsection (a) shall be posted publicly on the website of the Department of Defense.
                  
               
               
                  1069O.
                  REPORT ON NAVY USE OF IMMERSIVE LEARNING CAPABILITIES
                  Not later than December 1, 2024, the Secretary of the Navy shall submit to the Committee on Armed Services of the House of Representatives a report that includes—
                  
                     (1)
                     an identification of any immersive learning capabilities, including augmented, virtual and mixed reality, have been, or potentially could be, integrated into training across the Navy; 
                  
                  
                     (2)
                     a description of any efforts of the Navy to coordinate with the Air Force on lessons learned in the development of the Headquarters Air Force HAF/A4L Air Force Maintenance and Logistics Extended Reality (XR) Strategy and what elements of that strategy might be applicable to the Navy; 
                  
                  
                     (3)
                     an identification of the status of any activities of the Navy to build a comprehensive and executable strategy to invest, deploy, and sustain immersive learning training capabilities across the Navy; and
                  
                  
                     (4)
                     a description of any limitations or barriers to integrating immersive learning capabilities into the Navy, including ensuring compliance with relevant cybersecurity requirements.
                  
               
               
                  1069P.
                  DEPARTMENT OF DEFENSE REPORT ON POTENTIAL COST SAVINGS FROM USE OF ARTIFICIAL INTELLIGENCE
                  Not later than 90 days the date of the enactment of this Act, the Undersecretary of Defense (Comptroller) shall conduct a study and submit to Congress a report on the potential cost-saving measures of incorporating artificial intelligence and multi-domain, attributable autonomous, semi-autonomous, unmanned systems, capabilities and processes into military department and the civilian workforce of the Department of Defense.
               
            
            
               G
               Other Matters
               
                  1071.
                  EXPEDITED ACCESS TO CERTAIN MILITARY INSTALLATIONS OF THE DEPARTMENT OF DEFENSE FOR MEMBERS OF CONGRESS AND CERTAIN CONGRESSIONAL EMPLOYEES
                  
                     Chapter 159 of title 10, United States Code, is amended by adding at the end the following new section:
                  
                     
                        2698.
                        EXPEDITED ACCESS TO MILITARY INSTALLATIONS FOR MEMBERS OF CONGRESS AND CERTAIN CONGRESSIONAL EMPLOYEES
                        
                           (a)
                           In general
                           Except as provided in subsection (b), the Secretary shall establish procedures to ensure that—
                           
                              (1)
                              a Member of Congress seeking access to a covered installation is granted such access if such Member presents a covered identification card; and
                           
                           
                              (2)
                              any Congressional employees accompanying a Member of Congress granted access under paragraph (1) is granted the same access.
                           
                        
                        
                           (b)
                           Prohibited procedures
                           Under such procedures, the Secretary may not require a Member of Congress to schedule a grant of access to a covered installation under subsection (a) prior to the arrival of such Member and accompanying Congressional employees, if applicable, at such covered installation.
                        
                        
                           (c)
                           Definitions
                           In this section:
                           
                              (1)
                              The term Congressional employee has the meaning given such term in paragraph (5) of section 2107 of title 5.
                           
                           
                              (2)
                              The term covered identification card means a valid identification badge issued by the appropriate office of the House of Representatives or the Senate, as the case may be, which identifies the individual to which such identification badge was issued as a current Member of Congress.
                           
                           
                              (3)
                              The term covered installation means a military installation located in the United States or Guam at which the presentation of an issued Department of Defense common access card is the sole requirement for a member of the Armed Forces to be granted access to such military installation.
                           
                           
                              (4)
                              The term Member of Congress means—
                              
                                 (A)
                                 a Senator; or
                              
                              
                                 (B)
                                 a Representative in, or Delegate or Resident Commissioner to, Congress.
                              
                           
                        
                     
                     .
                  
               
               
                  1072.
                  AIR FORCE TECHNICAL TRAINING CENTER OF EXCELLENCE
                  
                     Chapter 903 of title 10, United States Code, is amended by adding at the end the following new section:
                  
                     
                        9025.
                        AIR FORCE TECHNICAL TRAINING CENTER OF EXCELLENCE
                        
                           (a)
                           Establishment
                           The Secretary of the Air Force shall operate a Technical Training Center of Excellence. The head of the Center shall be the designee of the Commander of Airmen Development Command.
                        
                        
                           (b)
                           Purpose
                           The purpose of the Center shall be to—
                           
                              (1)
                              facilitate collaboration among all Air Force technical training installations;
                           
                           
                              (2)
                              serve as a premier training location for all maintainers throughout the military departments;
                           
                           
                              (3)
                              publish a set of responsibilities aimed at driving excellence, innovation, and leadership across all technical training specialties;
                           
                           
                              (4)
                              advocate for innovative improvements in curriculum, facilities, and medial;
                           
                           
                              (5)
                              foster outreach with industry and academia;
                           
                           
                              (6)
                              identify and promulgate best practices, standards, and benchmarks;
                           
                           
                              (7)
                              create a hub of excellence for the latest advancements in aviation technology and training methodologies; and
                           
                           
                              (8)
                              carry out such other responsibilities as the Secretary determines appropriate.
                           
                        
                        
                           (c)
                           Location
                           The Secretary shall select a location for the Center that is an Air Force installation that provides technical training and maintenance proficiency.
                        
                     
                     .
                  
               
               
                  1073.
                  INSTALLATION ENERGY PLANS AND ASSESSMENT FOR REDUCTION OF RELIANCE ON RUSSIAN ENERGY
                  Section 1086 of the James M. Inhofe National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2023 (Public Law 117–283; 10 U.S.C. 2911 note) is amended—
                  
                     (1)
                     in subsection (c)(2)—
                     
                        (A)
                        by striking Not later than 12 months after the date of the enactment of this Act and inserting Not later than 90 days after the date of the enactment of the National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2025; and
                     
                     
                        (B)
                        in subparagraph (A), by striking main operating base on the list submitted under paragraph (1)(A) and inserting operating base within the area of responsibility of the United States European Command; and
                     
                  
                  
                     (2)
                     by adding at the end the following new subsection:
                     
                        
                           (h)
                           Limitation
                           Of the funds authorized to be appropriated by this Act or otherwise made available for fiscal year 2025 for the Office of the Secretary of Defense for travel, not more than 75 percent may be obligated or expended until the installation energy plans and assessment required under subsection (c)(2).
                        
                        .
                     
                  
               
               
                  1074.
                  EXTENSION OF COMMISSION ON THE FUTURE OF THE NAVY
                  Section 1092(a)(4) of the James M. Inhofe National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2023 (Public Law 117–263) is amended by striking July 1, 2024 and inserting July 1, 2025. 
               
               
                  1075.
                  MODIFICATION OF NATIONAL SECURITY COMMISSION ON EMERGING BIOTECHNOLOGY
                  Section 1091 of the National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2022 (Public Law 117–81) is amended—
                  
                     (1)
                     in subsection (b)(3) by striking the authority to make such appointment or appointments shall expire, and the number of members of the Commission shall be reduced by the number equal to the number of appointments so not made and inserting such appointments shall nevertheless be considered valid;
                  
                  
                     (2)
                     in subsection (g)(1), by inserting and 6 months after 3 years; and
                  
                  
                     (3)
                     in subsection (r), by striking 18 months after the date on which it submits the final report required by subsection (g) and inserting on December 31, 2026. 
                  
               
               
                  1076.
                  MODIFICATION OF DEFENSE SENSITIVE SUPPORT NOTIFICATION REQUIREMENT
                  Section 1055 of the National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2017 (Public Law 114–328; 10 U.S.C. 113 note) is amended—
                  
                     (1)
                     in subsection (b)—
                     
                        (A)
                        in paragraph (1), by striking paragraph (3) and inserting paragraphs (3) and (4); 
                     
                     
                        (B)
                        by redesignating paragraphs (3) through (5) as paragraphs (4) through (6), respectively;
                     
                     
                        (C)
                        by inserting after paragraph (2) the following new paragraph:
                        
                           
                              (3)
                              Routine defense sensitive support
                              In the event that the provision of defense sensitive support is routine defense sensitive support, the Secretary shall provide notification under paragraph (1) on a quarterly basis after providing the support.
                           
                           ;
                        
                     
                     
                        (D)
                        in paragraph (4), as so redesignated—
                        
                           (i)
                           in the paragraph heading, by inserting 
                                 and extraordinary security protections
                               after 
                                 support
                              ;
                        
                        
                           (ii)
                           in the matter preceding subparagraph (A)—
                           
                              (I)
                              by inserting or requires extraordinary security protections after time-sensitive; and
                           
                           
                              (II)
                              by inserting shall after Secretary; 
                           
                        
                        
                           (iii)
                           in subparagraph (A)—
                           
                              (I)
                              by striking may; 
                           
                           
                              (II)
                              by inserting or after the activity supported concludes after providing the support; and
                           
                           
                              (III)
                              by striking ; and and inserting ; or; and
                           
                        
                        
                           (iv)
                           in subparagraph (B)—
                           
                              (I)
                              by striking shall; and 
                           
                           
                              (II)
                              by striking notice as soon as practicable after providing such support, but not later than 48 hours after providing the support and inserting notification simultaneously with the execution of the supported activity; and
                           
                        
                     
                     
                        (E)
                        in paragraph (5), as so redesignated, by striking paragraphs (1) and (3) and inserting paragraphs (1), (3), and (4); and
                     
                  
                  
                     (2)
                     in subsection (c)—
                     
                        (A)
                        in the subsection heading, by striking 
                              Defense sensitive support defined
                            and inserting 
                              Definitions
                           ;
                     
                     
                        (B)
                        by striking , the term defense sensitive support means support provided by the Department of Defense to a non-Department of Defense Federal department or agency that requires special protection from disclosure. and inserting a colon; and
                     
                     
                        (C)
                        by adding at the end the following new paragraphs:
                        
                           
                              (1)
                              The term defense sensitive support means support provided by the Department of Defense to a non-Department of Defense Federal department or agency that requires special protection from disclosure.
                           
                           
                              (2)
                              The term routine defense sensitive support has the meaning given such term elsewhere in the National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2025.
                           
                           .
                        
                     
                  
               
               
                  1077.
                  POST-EMPLOYMENT RESTRICTIONS FOR PARTICIPANTS IN CERTAIN RESEARCH FUNDED BY THE DEPARTMENT OF DEFENSE
                  
                     (a)
                     In general
                     Except as provided under subsection (c), as a condition of becoming or remaining a principal investigator of a covered defense research project, a person shall agree that during the ten-year period beginning on the last day the person is a principal investigator of such research, such person may not seek or accept employment, or conduct any activity, for which a foreign entity of concern provides financial compensation or in-kind benefits.
                  
                  
                     (b)
                     Critical or emerging technology
                     For purposes of subsection (a), a critical or emerging technology is a technology that the Secretary of Defense determines to be critical or emerging. Not later than 270 days after the date of the enactment of this Act, and annually thereafter, the Secretary shall determine which technologies are critical or emerging from among the technologies for which the Department of Defense funds research, and shall make the results of such determination publicly available.
                  
                  
                     (c)
                     Waiver authority
                     The Secretary may waive the restriction under subsection (a) with respect to a United States person if, not later than 30 days before issuing the waiver, the Secretary submits to the congressional defense committees a notice of the waiver that includes—
                     
                        (1)
                        an unclassified justification for the waiver; and
                     
                     
                        (2)
                        a description of any Department of Defense funds provided to the person for which the waiver is issued or to the research in which the person participated.
                     
                  
                  
                     (d)
                     Applicability
                     This section shall apply with respect to research that begins on or after the date that is one year after the date of the enactment of this Act.
                  
                  
                     (e)
                     Definitions
                     In this section:
                     
                        (1)
                        The term foreign entity of concern has the meaning given that term in section 10612(a) of the Research and Development, Competition, and Innovation Act (42 U.S.C. 19221(a)) and includes a foreign entity that is identified on the list published under section 1286(c)(9)(A) of the John S. McCain National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2019 (Public Law 115–232; 10 U.S.C. 4001 note).
                     
                     
                        (2)
                        The term covered defense research project means a research project that—
                        
                           (A)
                           is operated by an institution of higher education or a subsidiary of an institution of higher education;
                        
                        
                           (B)
                           is funded, in whole or in part, by the Department of Defense; and
                        
                        
                           (C)
                           involves a critical or emerging technology, as defined in subsection (b) of this section.
                        
                     
                     
                        (3)
                        The term institution of higher education has the meaning given that term in section 102 of the Higher Education Act of 1965 (20 U.S.C. 1002).
                     
                  
               
               
                  1078.
                  ESTABLISHMENT OF NATIONAL SECURITY CAPITAL FORUM
                  
                     (a)
                     In general
                     The Secretary of Defense shall establish a forum to—
                     
                        (1)
                        convene domestic and international institutional financiers, capital providers, investors, entrepreneurs, innovators, business persons, representatives from across the private sector, relevant United States Government offices, and government and private entities of partner nations; and
                     
                     
                        (2)
                        allow the exchange of information between the entities referred to in paragraph (1) and the Department of Defense relating to transactions or potential transactions and to integrate efforts to achieve coordinated effects to support the national security interest of the United States.
                     
                  
                  
                     (b)
                     Chair
                     The Chair of the forum established under subsection (a) shall be the Director of the Office of Strategic Capital.
                  
                  
                     (c)
                     Designation of executive agent
                     The Secretary may designate the Director as the sole Executive Agent with respect to the authorities and responsibilities of the Secretary of Defense under section 1047 of the National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2023 (Public Law 117–263; 10 U.S.C. 113 note).
                  
               
               
                  1079.
                  PLAN FOR ADDITIONAL SKILL IDENTIFIERS FOR ARMY MOUNTAIN WARFARE SCHOOL
                  
                     (a)
                     Plan required
                     Not later than 180 days after the date of the enactment of this Act, the Secretary of the Army shall develop and implement a plan to establish each of the following:
                     
                        (1)
                        Additional skill identifiers for the following courses at the Army Mountain Warfare School:
                        
                           (A)
                           Advanced Military Mountaineer Course (Summer).
                        
                        
                           (B)
                           Advanced Military Mountaineer Course (Winter).
                        
                        
                           (C)
                           Rough Terrain Evacuation Course.
                        
                        
                           (D)
                           Mountain Planner Course.
                        
                        
                           (E)
                           Mountain Rifleman Course.
                        
                     
                     
                        (2)
                        New skill identifiers for officers and warrant officers who complete the Basic Military Mountaineer Course and the Mountain Planner Course.
                     
                  
                  
                     (b)
                     Briefing on plan
                     Not later than 30 days after the date on which the Secretary completes the plan under subsection (a), the Secretary shall provide to the congressional defense committees a briefing on the plan and the implementation of the plan.
                  
               
               
                  1080.
                  TABLETOP EXERCISE ON EXTREME WEATHER EVENTS IN THE INDO-PACIFIC REGION
                  
                     (a)
                     Tabletop exercise
                     
                        (1)
                        Requirement
                        Not later than one year after the date of the enactment of this Act, the Commander of the United States Indo-Pacific Command, in consultation with the the head of the institution selected by the Commander under paragraph (3), shall conduct at least one national tabletop exercise to assess the ability of the Armed Forces and military forces of allies or partners of the United States to confront aggressive adversarial threats in the Indo-Pacific region while simultaneously confronting extreme weather hazards.
                     
                     
                        (2)
                        Elements
                        The exercise conducted under paragraph (1) shall evaluate, at a minimum, the following:
                        
                           (A)
                           The resilience of United States weapons, systems, force posture, and command and control to withstand extreme environmental hazards during a single combat contingency in the Indo-Pacific region.
                        
                        
                           (B)
                           The mobility of the Armed Forces in the event of attacks upon critical infrastructure and logistical chokepoints pertinent to a contingency involving an ally or partner.
                        
                        
                           (C)
                           The ability of the Armed Forces to conduct logistics in a constrained environment, including the ability to resupply United States and allied forces, and civilian populations.
                        
                        
                           (D)
                           The resiliency of the Indo-Pacific Command to withstand extreme environmental hazards.
                        
                        
                           (E)
                           The response of the Department of Defense to partial or complete loss of overseas critical infrastructure.
                        
                        
                           (F)
                           The ability of the Armed Forces, in coordination with allies and partners, to resist force or other coercion by an aggressor if command and control is compromised due to extreme environmental conditions.
                        
                        
                           (G)
                           The options of the Federal Government to ensure the viability of overseas critical infrastructure in the event of a military contingency, including assets in Japan, the Republic of Korea, Guam, the Northern Marianas, Hawaii, and the Philippines.
                        
                        
                           (H)
                           Air defense capabilities to deter missile threats from the People’s Republic of China or the Democratic People’s Republic of Korea during a military conflict.
                        
                        
                           (I)
                           The ability of naval projection forces to defend against adversarial threats while operating under compromised conditions.
                        
                        
                           (J)
                           The survivability of critical military forces, particularly air and naval forces.
                        
                        
                           (K)
                           The ability of air forces to conduct agile combat employment operations under compromised positions.
                        
                        
                           (L)
                           The efficacy of ground-based targeting and firing in the Indo-Pacific to support key missions amidst extreme environmental conditions.
                        
                     
                     
                        (3)
                        Location
                        The exercise conducted under paragraph (1) shall be conducted at a postsecondary educational institution of the Armed Forces selected by the Commander of the United States Indo-Pacific Command. In making such selection, the Commander shall consider the following elements:
                        
                           (A)
                           Geographic proximity to the United States Indo-Pacific Command area of responsibility.
                        
                        
                           (B)
                           Leadership in science and technology, academic research, and applied design for innovation to meaningfully participate or provide analysis on the exercises described in paragraph (2).
                        
                        
                           (C)
                           Experience and capacity to conduct a tabletop exercise impacted by extreme environmental conditions.
                        
                        
                           (D)
                           Leadership in meeting objectives of the Department of Defense to create resilient and sustainable military capabilities that can withstand extreme weather conditions.
                        
                     
                     
                        (4)
                        Preparation
                        The tabletop exercise shall be prepared by personnel of the United States Indo-Pacific Command, selected by the Commander in consultation with the Secretary of Defense and the head of the institution selected by the Commander under paragraph (3).
                     
                     
                        (5)
                        Participants
                        Participants in the tabletop exercise may include the following, as determined appropriate by the Commander:
                        
                           (A)
                           Personnel of the Department of Defense.
                        
                        
                           (B)
                           Representatives of thinktanks or other entities of the United States.
                        
                        
                           (C)
                           Representatives of allies and partners, subject to the approval of the Secretary of Defense and the Secretary of State.
                        
                     
                     
                        (6)
                        Frequency
                        In addition to the exercise conducted under paragraph (1), other such tabletop exercises may be conducted not more than twice per year during the period of four years following the date of the enactment of this Act, at dates and times determined by the Commander of the United States Indo-Pacific Command and the head of the institution selected by the Commander under paragraph (3).
                     
                  
                  
                     (b)
                     Briefing
                     Following the conclusion of a tabletop exercise conducted under subsection (a), the Commander of the United States Indo-Pacific Command and a nongovernmental participant determined by the Commander, shall provide to the appropriate congressional committees a briefing on the tabletop exercise. Such a briefing shall include—
                     
                        (1)
                        an assessment of the decision-making, capability, and response gaps observed in the tabletop exercise; and
                     
                     
                        (2)
                        recommendations to improve the resiliency of, and reduce vulnerabilities in, the domestic critical infrastructure of the United States in the event of a military contingency involving an ally or partner.
                     
                  
                  
                     (c)
                     Definitions
                     In this section:
                     
                        (1)
                        The term ally or partner means Taiwan, Japan, or the Republic of Korea.
                     
                     
                        (2)
                        The term appropriate congressional committees means—
                        
                           (A)
                           the Committee on Armed Services, the Committee on Foreign Affairs, and the Committee on Oversight and Reform of the House of Representatives; and
                        
                        
                           (B)
                           the Committee on Armed Services, the Committee on Foreign Relations, and the Committee on Homeland Security and Government Affairs of the Senate.
                        
                     
                     
                        (3)
                        The term environmental hazard includes—
                        
                           (A)
                           an earthquake;
                        
                        
                           (B)
                           a tsunami;
                        
                        
                           (C)
                           a hurricane, typhoon, monsoon, or other storm;
                        
                        
                           (D)
                           rising sea levels;
                        
                        
                           (E)
                           mudslides; or
                        
                        
                           (F)
                           any other environmental condition the Commander of the United States Indo-Pacific Command determines is relevant to the Indo-Pacific region and disruptive to military operations of the United States or forces of an ally or partner.
                        
                     
                     
                        (4)
                        The term tabletop exercise means an activity—
                        
                           (A)
                           in which senior personnel gather to deliberate various simulated emergency or rapid response situations; and
                        
                        
                           (B)
                           that is designed to assess the adequacy of plans, policies, procedures, training, resources, and relationships or agreements that guide the prevention of, response to, and recovery from a defined event.
                        
                     
                  
               
               
                  1081.
                  PILOT PROGRAM ON ARMY READINESS IN CONTESTED LOGISTICS ENVIRONMENTS
                  
                     (a)
                     In general
                     Beginning not later than 180 days after the date of the enactment of this Act, the Secretary of the Army, in coordination with the Combine Arms Center of the United States Army Training and Doctrine Command, shall carry out a pilot program designed to enhance the overall readiness of the Army in a contested logistics environment.
                  
                  
                     (b)
                     Requirements
                     Under the pilot program required by subsection (a), the Secretary shall—
                     
                        (1)
                        encourage the acquisition of commercially available equipment and services in order to provide efficient and effective life support on expeditionary bases; and
                     
                     
                        (2)
                        demonstrate the effectiveness of the pilot program in simulated environments at multiple combat training centers, including—
                        
                           (A)
                           the National Training Center;
                        
                        
                           (B)
                           the Joint Readiness Training Center; or
                        
                        
                           (C)
                           the Joint Multinational Readiness Center.
                        
                     
                  
                  
                     (c)
                     Report
                     Not later than one year after the date of the enactment of this Act, and annually thereafter until the termination of the pilot program under subsection (d), the Secretary shall submit to the congressional defense committees a report on the findings of the pilot program. Each such report shall include, for the year covered by the report, an identification of—
                     
                        (1)
                        skills that the combined force needs to develop and maintain to enable the efficient and effective deployment of life support systems;
                     
                     
                        (2)
                        commercially-available equipment that has proven effective in simulated combat and contested environments; and
                     
                     
                        (3)
                        progress made in equipping training and deploying units with technologies, items, and skills shown to be effective under the pilot program.
                     
                  
                  
                     (d)
                     Sunset
                     The authorities to carry out a pilot program under this section shall terminate on the date that is ten years after the date of the enactment of this Act.
                  
               
               
                  1082.
                  PILOT PROGRAM ON FORWARD ADVANCED MANUFACTURING
                  
                     (a)
                     In general
                     Beginning not later than one year after the date of the enactment of this Act, the Secretary of Defense, acting through the Assistant Secretary of Defense for Industrial Base Policy, shall carry out a pilot program under which the Secretary establishes a public-private partnership to develop a forward advanced manufacturing capability in the area of responsibility of the United States Indo-Pacific Command to meet advanced manufacturing requirements for the submarine and shipbuilding industrial base and emerging needs of such Command and its component commands.
                  
                  
                     (b)
                     Elements of program
                     The pilot program required under subsection (a) shall include—
                     
                        (1)
                        development of an advanced manufacturing facility outside of a military installation in the area of responsibility of the United States Indo-Pacific Command capable of manufacturing large metal structures, including those required for unmanned vehicles, surface and underwater vehicles, and ship maintenance and upgrades, through advanced manufacturing, maintaining local machining capabilities, and maintaining a production capability across critical minerals necessary to emerging repair and production requirements in conflict; and
                     
                     
                        (2)
                        coordination of requirements from the United States Indo-Pacific Command, the Submarine Industrial Base Task Force, the Innovation Capability and Modernization office, and the Industrial Base Analysis and Sustainment program.
                     
                  
                  
                     (c)
                     Termination
                     The authority to carry out the pilot program required under subsection (a) shall terminate five years after the date on which the Secretary commences the pilot program.
                  
                  
                     (d)
                     Report required
                     
                        (1)
                        In general
                        Not later than 90 days after the date on which the Secretary commences the pilot program under subsection (a), and on an annual basis thereafter until the termination date under subsection (c), the Assistant Secretary of Defense for Industrial Base Policy shall submit to the Committees on Armed Services of the House of Representatives and the Senate a report on the pilot program.
                     
                     
                        (2)
                        Elements
                        Each report required under this subsection shall include:
                        
                           (A)
                           a progress update on the implementation of the pilot program under subsection (a), including progress with respect to each of the elements described in subsection (b);
                        
                        
                           (B)
                           an overview of any partnerships entered into with industry and other relevant entities in support of the pilot program;
                        
                        
                           (C)
                           a review of the ability of the pilot program to meet requirements identified by the entities specified in subsection (b)(2); and
                        
                        
                           (D)
                           input from the entities specified in subsection (b)(2), industry, and other relevant entities on the desirability and effects of the pilot program.
                        
                     
                  
                  
                     (e)
                     Advanced manufacturing defined
                     In this section, the term advanced manufacturing includes manufacturing processes utilizing additive manufacturing, wire-arc additive manufacturing, and powder bed fusion manufacturing.
                  
               
               
                  1083.
                  FRANK A. LOBIONDO NATIONAL AEROSPACE SAFETY AND SECURITY CAMPUS
                  
                     (a)
                     In general
                     The campus and grounds of the Federal facility located at the Atlantic City International Airport in Egg Harbor Township, New Jersey, at which the 177th Fighter Wing of the New Jersey Air National Guard is stationed shall be known and designated as the Frank A. LoBiondo National Aerospace Safety and Security Campus.
                  
                  
                     (b)
                     Reference
                     Any reference in a law, map, regulation, document, paper, or other record of the United States to the campus and grounds referred to in subsection (a) shall be deemed to be a reference to the Frank A. LoBiondo National Aerospace Safety and Security Campus.
                  
               
               
                  1084.
                  ASSESSMENT REGARDING ANTIFOULING COATINGS
                  
                     (a)
                     Assessment for deploying new antifouling coatings for the surface fleet
                     Not later than one year after the date of the enactment of this Act, the Secretary of Defense shall conduct an assessment to evaluate the feasibility of moving away from copper-based antifouling coatings. Such an assessment shall include each of the following:
                     
                        (1)
                        A timeline to remove existing copper-based antifouling coatings from naval vessels by January 1, 2028.
                     
                     
                        (2)
                        Criteria for antifouling effectiveness, measured by—
                        
                           (A)
                           the duration of time such coating prevents biological adhesion, corrosion, and degradation of vessel surfaces;
                        
                        
                           (B)
                           environmental damage caused by shedding and leaching of the coating; and
                        
                        
                           (C)
                           the effect of the coating on fuel efficiency and vessel speed.
                        
                     
                     
                        (3)
                        An evaluation of whether a new standard in standard rotation for maintenance of surface vessels could effectively reduce the time and costs associated with maintenance key events, such as repair planning and time in drydock, while also being environmentally sound.
                     
                  
                  
                     (b)
                     Evaluation of commercially available products
                     Prior to conducting the assessment required by subsection (a), the Secretary shall evaluate commercially available products, technologies, applications, and services that could be used to improve combat readiness by decreasing the need for re-application of antifouling coatings.
                  
               
               
                  1085.
                  AUTHORIZATION TO USE NONELECTRIC VEHICLES AT YUMA PROVING GROUND
                  The Secretary of Defense shall ensure that members of the Armed Forces and civilian employees of the Department of Defense assigned to the Yuma Proving Ground are authorized to use nonelectric vehicles in the performance of their duties.
               
               
                  1086.
                  SENSE OF CONGRESS RELATING TO EXPENDITURES FOR CERTAIN MILITARY HOUSING
                  It is the sense of Congress that the United States should not be spending more money to house illegal immigrants than on housing for America’s military families. 
               
               
                  1087.
                  UNIVERSITY CENTERS FOR ARCTIC NATIONAL SECURITY STUDIES
                  
                     (a)
                     Findings
                     Congress finds the following:
                     
                        (1)
                        Investments in improving our understanding of the Arctic environment are critical to ensuring the national security of the United States.
                     
                     
                        (2)
                        The Ted Stevens Center for Arctic Security Studies is vital to understanding and addressing the strategic implications of the current and emerging Arctic security challenge.
                     
                     
                        (3)
                        The Arctic environment is rapidly changing and accurate and consistent data and analysis is needed to produce evidence-based policy.
                     
                     
                        (4)
                        The academic community is well-positioned to support efforts to advance critical Arctic national security studies.
                     
                  
                  
                     (b)
                     Establishment
                     Beginning not later than one year after the date of the enactment of this Act, the Secretary of Defense shall establish or designate one or more one or more University Centers for Arctic National Security Studies at institutions of higher education.
                  
                  
                     (c)
                     Activities
                     A University Center established or designated under subsection (b) shall carry out activities—
                     
                        (1) 
                        in collaboration with the Ted Stevens Center for Arctic Security Studies and other relevant entities, to set mission priorities for the Department of Defense relating to the Arctic domain;
                     
                     
                        (2)
                        to support academic research to advance evidence-based policy making on matters relating to the Arctic;
                     
                     
                        (3)
                        to improve the Department’s understanding of the ever-changing Arctic environment; and
                     
                     
                        (4)
                        to foster collaboration between researchers and students to advance Arctic national security studies.
                     
                  
               
               
                  1088.
                  PSYCHOLOGICAL PERFORMANCE TRAINING IN PERFORMANCE MINDSET
                  
                     (a)
                     Finding
                     Congress finds that long-term exposure to high-stress environments leaves many individuals in a suboptimal performance state, creating an environment for maladaptive coping mechanisms, compromised performance abilities, and a potential increase in anxiety, depression, suicide, domestic violence, and substance abuse.
                  
                  
                     (b)
                     Required training
                     All training provided to a member of the Armed Forces, including at a Service Academy (as defined section 347 of title 10, United States Code), or a school operated under chapter 107 or 108 of title 10, United States Code, shall include training on the development of proactive psychological performance skills and strategies for psychological flexibility and mental strength. Such training shall include each of the following:
                     
                        (1)
                        Training in scientifically researched and evidence-based mindset skills designed to prepare members of the Armed Forces for the physical and mental stressors associated with service in the Armed Forces.
                     
                     
                        (2)
                        Performance mindset training designed to create psychological flexibility and mental strength to reduce the effects of potential trauma. 
                     
                     
                        (3)
                        Interactive and contextualized training provided by specialized training teams with expert knowledge of psychological performance and how to apply the skills covered by the training across the phases of a career of a member of the Armed Forces.
                     
                  
                  
                     (c)
                     Report
                     Not later than one year after the date of the enactment of this Act, and annually thereafter, the Secretary of Defense shall submit to the congressional defense committees a report on the implementation of this section. Each such report shall be submitted in unclassified form, but may contain a classified annex.
                  
               
               
                  1089.
                  SENSE OF CONGRESS REGARDING COOPERATION WITH THE PHILIPPINES ON MARITIME SECURITY
                  It is the sense of Congress that—
                  
                     (1)
                     the United States should remain committed to helping the Philippines maintain the safety and security of the Philippines, including helping the Philippines to defend against threats to such safety and security from China; and
                  
                  
                     (2)
                     to help the Philippines defend against such threats, the United States should expand cooperation between the United States and the Philippines with respect to maritime security.
                  
               
               
                  1090.
                  ESTABLISHMENT OF MULTILATERAL ARTIFICIAL INTELLIGENCE WORKING GROUP
                  
                     (a)
                     Establishment
                     Not later than 90 days after the date of the enactment of this Act, the Secretary of Defense shall establish a working group, which shall be known as the Multilateral Artificial Intelligence Working Group, to develop and coordinate an artificial intelligence initiative among the allies and partners of the United States.
                  
                  
                     (b)
                     Organization
                     
                        (1)
                        Designation of head
                        The Secretary shall designate a senior civilian officer of the Department of Defense or senior military officer with experience leading relevant efforts, as determined by the Secretary, to serve as the head of the Working Group.
                     
                     
                        (2)
                        Participation by other member countries
                        The Secretary shall determine which allies and partners of the United States shall be asked to participate as member countries in the Working Group.
                     
                  
                  
                     (c)
                     Responsibilities
                     The responsibilities of the Working Group shall be to develop and coordinate efforts to implement an artificial intelligence initiative between the Department of Defense and allies and partners of the United States, including by—
                     
                        (1)
                        comparing—
                        
                           (A)
                           the various artificial intelligence systems and the elements thereof (including machine learning and generative artificial intelligence such as large language models) used for covered operational uses by members countries; and
                        
                        
                           (B)
                           the respective practices associated with the employment of such systems for covered operational uses by members countries;
                        
                     
                     
                        (2)
                        identifying (including by experimenting, testing, and evaluating) potential solutions to advance and accelerate the interoperability of artificial intelligence systems used for intelligence sharing, battlespace awareness, and other covered operational uses;
                     
                     
                        (3)
                        testing and evaluating the effects of artificial intelligence model redundancy, including the risks and safety measures associated with operating multiple artificial intelligence systems, including in tandem with one another;
                     
                     
                        (4)
                        developing a shared strategy for the research, development, test, evaluation, and employment of artificial intelligence systems for covered operational uses carried out jointly by the member countries;
                     
                     
                        (5)
                        developing a shared strategy for—
                        
                           (A)
                           managing data-informed artificial intelligence systems; and
                        
                        
                           (B)
                           testing and evaluating artificial intelligence systems with combined data sets at the unclassified and classified levels;
                        
                     
                     
                        (6)
                        testing and evaluating the capabilities of the defense industrial base of the member countries to incorporate artificial intelligence systems into systems used for covered operational uses;
                     
                     
                        (7)
                        comparing and using ethical frameworks to accelerate technological advancements with respect to artificial intelligence systems;
                     
                     
                        (8)
                        expanding innovation efforts by the member countries and share among such countries best practices for the accelerated procurement and adoption of artificial intelligence technologies for covered operational uses;
                     
                     
                        (9)
                        leveraging commercially available artificial intelligence technologies to advance near-term jointness between the armed forces of the member countries;
                     
                     
                        (10)
                        jointly identifying and sourcing artificial intelligence systems, as practicable, and advising member countries with respect to export controls applicable to such systems; and
                     
                     
                        (11)
                        carrying out such other activities as the Secretary determines to be relevant to such responsibilities.
                     
                  
                  
                     (d)
                     Control of knowledge and technical data
                     The Secretary shall seek to ensure that any knowledge or technical data produced by a member country under any cooperative project carried out by the Working Group shall be controlled by that country under the export control laws and regulations of that country and shall not be subject to the jurisdiction or control of any other member country.
                  
                  
                     (e)
                     Plan and reports
                     
                        (1)
                        Plan
                        
                           (A)
                           Submission
                           Not later than 60 days after the date of the enactment of this Act, the Secretary shall submit to the congressional defense committees a plan for the establishment and activities of the Working Group.
                        
                        
                           (B)
                           Elements
                           The plan under subparagraph (A) shall include—
                           
                              (i)
                              a plan for the establishment of the Working Group;
                           
                           
                              (ii)
                              a description of any funding requirements or administrative support necessary to carry out this section;
                           
                           
                              (iii)
                              a description of any additional statutory authorities necessary to carry out this section;
                           
                           
                              (iv)
                              a plan for the fulfilment of responsibilities under subsection (c) by the Working Group;
                           
                           
                              (v)
                              an evaluation of existing multilateral artificial intelligence efforts;
                           
                           
                              (vi)
                              a plan for the integration of the artificial intelligence initiative developed and coordinated by the Working Group with other programs and initiatives of the elements of the Department of Defense with responsibilities relating to mutual security and artificial intelligence efforts among the member countries;
                           
                           
                              (vii)
                              performance indicators by which the activities of the Working Group will be assessed; and
                           
                           
                              (viii)
                              a description of how efforts of the commanders of the combatant commands relating to military interoperability and test and evaluation of artificial intelligence systems will be tasked and executed by and through the Working Group.
                           
                        
                     
                     
                        (2)
                        Semiannual report
                        Not later than 180 days after the date of the enactment of this Act, and on a semiannual basis thereafter until the date of termination under subsection (f), the Secretary shall submit to the congressional defense committees a report on the activities and milestones of the Working Group. Each such report shall include, with respect to the period covered by the report—
                        
                           (A)
                           an assessment of the activities of the Working Group based on the performance indicators set forth in the plan under paragraph (1)(B)(vii); and
                        
                        
                           (B)
                           a description of any efforts of the commanders of the combatant commands taken in support of the responsibilities of the Working Group.
                        
                     
                  
                  
                     (f)
                     Termination
                     
                        (1)
                        In general
                        Except as provided in paragraph (2), the Working Group shall terminate on September 30, 2028.
                     
                     
                        (2)
                        Authority to extend
                        The Secretary may extend the termination date under paragraph (1) if the Secretary determines such extension to be in the national security interests of the United States.
                     
                  
                  
                     (g)
                     Definitions
                     In this section:
                     
                        (1)
                        The term battlespace awareness has the meaning given that term in the Joint Publication 1–02 of the Department of Defense, titled Department of Defense Dictionary of Military and Associated Terms, or successor publication.
                     
                     
                        (2)
                        The term covered operational use means use by a government for operations in a defense context.
                     
                     
                        (3)
                        The term member country means a member country of the Working Group.
                     
                  
               
               
                  1091.
                  DECLASSIFICATION REVIEW OF DOCUMENTS RELATING TO INVOLVEMENT OF UNITED STATES IN 1973 COUP IN CHILE
                  The Secretary of Defense, in coordination with the Secretary of State and the Director of the Central Intelligence Agency, shall conduct a declassification review of documents relating to the involvement of the United States in the 1973 coup in Chile, including—
                  
                     (1)
                     any record of financial support provided by the United States Government to any organization or other entity, whether private or public, that supported the coup;
                  
                  
                     (2)
                     any record of communication between an officer or employee of the United States Government and a senior military or intelligence officer of the Government of Chile during the period beginning on September 11, 1972, and ending on September 11, 1974; and
                  
                  
                     (3)
                     any other document containing information relating to the involvement of the United States Government in the coup.
                  
               
            
         
         
            XI
            CIVILIAN PERSONNEL MATTERS
            
               1101.
                EXTENSION OF AUTHORITY FOR NONCOMPETITIVE APPOINTMENTS OF MILITARY SPOUSES BY FEDERAL AGENCIES
               
                  (a)
                  In general
                  Section 573(e) of the John S. McCain National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2019 (Public Law 115–232; 5 U.S.C. 3330d note) is repealed.
               
               
                  (b)
                  Extension and report
                  Section 1119 of the National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2024 (Public Law 118–31) is amended—
                  
                     (1)
                     in subsection (d), by striking December 31, 2028 and inserting December 31, 2033; and
                  
                  
                     (2)
                     by adding after subsection (d) the following:
                     
                        
                           (e)
                           Reports
                           
                              (1)
                              In general
                              Not later than 1 year after the date of the enactment of this subsection and each year thereafter until the sunset date in subsection (d), the Secretary of Defense shall—
                              
                                 (A)
                                 submit a report to the congressional defense committees on the use of the hiring authority under section 3330d of title 5, United States Code; and
                              
                              
                                 (B)
                                 publish such report on the public website of the Department of Defense.
                              
                           
                           
                              (2)
                              Contents
                              Each report under paragraph (1) shall include information on—
                              
                                 (A)
                                 how often such authority is used by agencies; 
                              
                              
                                 (B)
                                 what positions are filled using such authority, and the grade and locations of such positions;
                              
                              
                                 (C)
                                 the number of military spouse applicants seeking positions under such authority who were not selected and the grade and locations of such positions; and
                              
                              
                                 (D)
                                 how often Department of Defense components exercised exceptions to spouse preference procedures and the grade and locations of such positions.
                              
                           
                        
                        .
                     
                  
               
               
                  (c)
                  Technical amendments
                  
                     (1)
                     In general
                     Section 1119(a) of the National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2024 (Public Law 118–31) is amended—
                     
                        (A)
                        in paragraph (2)—
                        
                           (i)
                           by striking (2) and all that follows through the following: and inserting the following:
                           
                              
                                 (2)
                                 in subsection (a)—
                                 
                                    (A)
                                    by redesignating paragraph (5), as added by section 1112(a)(1)(C) of this Act, as paragraph (6); and
                                 
                                 
                                    (B)
                                    by inserting after paragraph (4), as redesignated by section 1112(a)(1)(A) of this Act, the following:
                                 
                              
                              ; and
                           
                        
                        
                           (ii)
                           in the quoted material, by striking (4) The term and inserting (5) The term; and
                        
                     
                     
                        (B)
                        in paragraph (3)—
                        
                           (i)
                           in the matter preceding subparagraph (A), by inserting , as amended by section 1112(a)(2) of this Act after in subsection (b);
                        
                        
                           (ii)
                           in subparagraph (A), by striking paragraph (1) and inserting paragraph (2);
                        
                        
                           (iii)
                           in subparagraph (B), by striking paragraph (2) and inserting paragraph (3); and
                        
                        
                           (iv)
                           in subparagraph C), in the quoted material, by striking (3) a spouse and inserting (4) a spouse.
                        
                     
                  
                  
                     (2)
                     Effective date
                     The amendments made by paragraph (1) shall take effect as if included in the enactment of section 1119 of the National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2024 (Public Law 118–31).
                  
               
            
            
               1102.
                EXTENSION OF LIVING QUARTERS ALLOWANCE TO CIVILIAN DOD EMPLOYEES STATIONED IN GUAM
               Section 1102 of the National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2024 (Public Law 118–31) is amended—
               
                  (1)
                  in the section heading, by striking 
                        department of the navy civilian employees assigned to permanent duty in guam for performing work, or supporting work being performed, aboard or dockside, of u.s. naval vessels
                      and inserting 
                        civilian employees of the Department of Defense stationed in Guam
                     ;
               
               
                  (2)
                  in subsection (a), by striking Secretary of the Navy and inserting Secretary of Defense; and 
               
               
                  (3)
                  by amending subsection (b) to read as follows:
                  
                     
                        (b)
                        Covered employee defined
                        In this section, the term covered employee means any civilian employee of the Department of Defense whose permanent duty station is located in Guam. 
                     
                     .
                  
               
            
            
               1103.
                ONE-YEAR EXTENSION OF AUTHORITY TO WAIVE ANNUAL LIMITATION ON PREMIUM PAY AND AGGREGATE LIMITATION ON PAY FOR FEDERAL CIVILIAN EMPLOYEES WORKING OVERSEAS
               Subsection (a) of section 1101 of the Duncan Hunter National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2009 (Public Law 110–417; 122 Stat. 4615), as most recently amended by section 1102 of the James M. Inhofe National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2023 (Public Law 117–263), is further amended by striking through 2024 and inserting through 2025.
            
            
               1104.
                ONE-YEAR EXTENSION OF TEMPORARY AUTHORITY TO GRANT ALLOWANCES, BENEFITS, AND GRATUITIES TO CIVILIAN PERSONNEL ON OFFICIAL DUTY IN A COMBAT ZONE
               Paragraph (2) of section 1603(a) of the Emergency Supplemental Appropriations Act for Defense, the Global War on Terror, and Hurricane Recovery, 2006 (Public Law 109–234; 120 Stat. 443), as added by section 1102 of the Duncan Hunter National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2009 (Public Law 110–417; 122 Stat. 4616) and as most recently amended by section 1109 of the National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2024 (Public Law 118–31), is further amended by striking 2025 and inserting 2026. 
            
            
               1105.
                PROHIBITION ON LIMITING DURATION OF OVERSEAS WORK-PERIOD FOR DOD COMPETITIVE SERVICE POSITIONS
               
                  (a)
                  In general
                  During the 7 year period beginning on the date of the enactment of this Act—
                  
                     (1)
                     no limit may be placed on the duration of civilian employment of Department of Defense competitive service employees in a foreign area; and
                  
                  
                     (2)
                     the 5-year limitation on such employment in a foreign area in Department of Defense Instruction 1400.25, titled DoD Civilian Personnel Management System: Employment in Foreign Areas and Employee Return Rights and issued on July 26, 2012 (or a successor instruction), shall have no force or effect. 
                  
               
               
                  (b)
                  Report
                  Not later than March 1, 2025, the Secretary of Defense shall submit a report to the congressional defense committees on the following:
                  
                     (1)
                     The impact of this section on recruiting and retaining civilian competitive service employees at the Department of Defense.
                  
                  
                     (2)
                     The total number of—
                     
                        (A)
                        Department employees that were able to remain in positions as a result of this section; and
                     
                     
                        (B)
                        Department positions that were not open for initial appointments as a result of this section.
                     
                  
                  
                     (3)
                     The grade and classification of Department positions affected by this section. 
                  
                  
                     (4)
                     Any other information the Secretary deems appropriate.
                  
               
               
                  (c)
                  Foreign area defined
                  In this section, the term foreign area means any location that is not within a nonforeign area (as that term is defined in section 591.205 of title 5, Code of Federal Regulations, or any successor regulation).
               
            
            
               1106.
                WAIVER OF LIMITATION ON APPOINTMENT OF RECENTLY RETIRED MEMBERS OF ARMED FORCES TO DOD COMPETITIVE SERVICE POSITIONS
               
                  (a)
                  In general
                  Section 3326 of title 5, United States Code, is amended—
                  
                     (1)
                     in the section heading, by inserting 
                           certain
                         before 
                           positions
                        ; 
                  
                  
                     (2)
                     in subsection (b)—
                     
                        (A)
                        in the matter preceding paragraph (1), by striking the civil service and inserting the excepted service or the Senior Executive Service; and
                     
                     
                        (B)
                        in paragraph (1), by striking for the purpose and all that follows through Management; and
                     
                  
                  
                     (3)
                     in subsection (c), by striking , or the authorization and approval, as the case may be,. 
                  
               
               
                  (b)
                  Clerical amendment
                  The table of sections at the beginning of subchapter I of chapter 33 of such title is amended in the item relating to section 3326 by inserting certain before positions.
               
            
            
               1107.
                CHILD DEVELOPMENT PROGRAM STAFFING AND COMPENSATION MODEL
               
                  (a)
                  In general
                  The Secretary of Defense, in collaboration with the Secretaries of the military departments, shall carry out a redesign of the Department of Defense child development program compensation model and modernization of the child development program staffing model.
               
               
                  (b)
                  Redesigned compensation model
                  The Secretary of Defense, in collaboration with the Secretaries of the military departments, shall—
                  
                     (1)
                     redesign child development program staff compensation for non-entry level, mid-to-senior level classroom staff by modernizing the duties and responsibilities captured in position descriptions to more accurately reflect performance and expectations of the positions;
                  
                  
                     (2)
                     adjust compensation for higher-level program management positions by modernizing the duties and responsibilities captured in position descriptions to more accurately reflect performance and expectations of the positions;
                  
                  
                     (3)
                     direct the Department’s personnel office to make necessary adjustments to modernize the pay plan to accommodate any compensation and wage increases driven by the updated position descriptions for child development program staff; and
                  
                  
                     (4)
                     begin implementation of the revised position descriptions and accompanying compensation adjustments no later than April 1, 2025, subject to the availability of appropriations.
                  
               
               
                  (c)
                  Modernize child development program staffing model
                  The Secretary of Defense, in collaboration with the Secretaries of the military departments, shall—
                  
                     (1)
                     add key positions to facilitate classroom operations and provide direct support to child development program staff;
                  
                  
                     (2)
                     add key positions to coordinate support for the needs of children with specials needs and provide direct support to the child development program staff working with these children; and
                  
                  
                     (3)
                     develop and implement a 5-year phased plan to ensure responsible funding execution, successful implementation allowing for adjustments as necessary, and long-term sustainable impact.
                  
               
               
                  (d)
                  Reports
                  
                     (1)
                     In general
                     The Secretary of Defense, in collaboration with the Secretaries of the military departments, shall submit reports to detail progress, accomplishments, and demonstrate the impact of the redesigned compensation and modernized staffing models.
                  
                  
                     (2)
                     Baseline report
                     Not later than 180 days after the end of fiscal year 2025, an initial baseline report shall be submitted to the congressional defense committees. 
                  
                  
                     (3)
                     Annual reports
                     Not later than 180 days after the end of each of fiscal years 2026 through 2029, a progress report shall be submitted to the congressional defense committees.
                  
                  
                     (4)
                     Contents
                     Any report submitted under paragraph (2) or (3) shall include the following:
                     
                        (A)
                        Percentage of child development program staff that are also military spouses.
                     
                     
                        (B)
                        Turnover or retention rate of child development program staff.
                     
                     
                        (C)
                        Utilization rate of child development program child care spaces.
                     
                     
                        (D)
                        Number of newly hired child development program employees.
                     
                     
                        (E)
                        Percentage of newly hired child development program employees who resign within their first 6 months of employment.
                     
                     
                        (F)
                        Information on the ability to staff newly constructed facilities.
                     
                     
                        (G)
                        Impacts of adding key positions to the child development program staffing model.
                     
                  
               
               
                  (e)
                  Definition of child development program
                  In this section, the term child development program means child care services under subchapter II of chapter 88 of title 10, United States Code. 
               
            
            
               1108.
                MANDATORY PUBLIC DISCLOSURES BY NEWLY NOMINATED CIVILIANS FOR SENIOR POSITIONS IN THE DEPARTMENT OF DEFENSE
               Section 113(f) of title 10, United States Code, is amended—
               
                  (1)
                  by inserting (1) after (f); and
               
               
                  (2)
                  by adding at the end the following:
                  
                     
                        (2)
                        Not later than 5 days after the President submits to the Senate a nomination of an individual to occupy an office referred to in paragraph (1), such individual shall disclose, on a publicly accessible website of the Department of Defense, a full a complete statement with respect to—
                        
                           (A)
                           the source, type, and amount or value of any funds received by such individual from the government of a foreign country, a foreign political party (as such terms are defined in section 1 of the Foreign Agent Registration Act of 1938 (22 U.S.C. 611)), or a foreign governmental entity (as defined in section 1(m)(1)(B) of the State Department Basic Authorities Act (22 U.S.C. 2651a(m)(1)(B)) during the 5-year period immediately preceding such nomination; and
                        
                        
                           (B)
                           the source, duration, and type of any goods or services provided by, or performed on behalf of or for the benefit of, a foreign government, foreign political party, or a foreign governmental entity controlled by a foreign government during such 5-year period.
                        
                     
                     
                        (3)
                        Paragraph (2) shall not require any individual to include in such disclosure any information which is considered private, confidential, or privileged, as a result of an established professional or fiduciary relationship between such individual or any person.
                     
                     .
                  
               
            
            
               1109.
                EMPLOYMENT AND COMPENSATION OF CIVILIAN FACULTY MEMBERS AT INTER-AMERICAN DEFENSE COLLEGE
               
                  (a)
                  In general
                  Subsection (c) of section 1595 of title 10, United States Code, is amended by adding at the end the following new paragraph:
                  
                     
                        (9)
                        The United States Element of the Inter-American Defense College.
                     
                     .
                  
               
               
                  (b)
                  Conforming amendments
                  Such section is further amended—
                  
                     (1)
                     in subsection (a), by striking institutions and inserting organizations; and
                  
                  
                     (2)
                     in subsection (c)—
                     
                        (A)
                        in the subsection heading, by striking Institutions and inserting Organizations; and
                     
                     
                        (B)
                        in the matter preceding paragraph (1), by striking institutions and inserting organizations.
                     
                  
               
            
            
               1110.
                SUPPLEMENTAL GUIDANCE FOR MCO COMPETITIVE SERVICE POSITIONS
               
                  (a)
                  In general
                  Not later than 90 days after the date of the enactment of this Act, the Secretary of Defense, in coordination with the Director of the Office of Personnel Management and the Secretaries of the military departments, shall establish supplemental guidance for qualification standards for competitive service positions within the Department of Defense that are Mission Critical Occupations. 
               
               
                  (b)
                  Requirements
                  Under the supplemental guidance established under subsection (a), the Secretaries of the military departments may, with approval of the Secretary of Defense, adopt or waive the requirements of the guidance. Any such adoption or waiver shall include a written justification, submitted to the Secretary of Defense, that such adoption or waiver (as the case may be) will improve competitive service employee recruitment and retention.
               
               
                  (c)
                  Plan; briefing
                  
                     (1)
                     Plan
                     Not later than 90 days after the date of the enactment of this Act, the Secretary of Defense, in coordination with the Director of the Office of Personnel Management, shall present a plan on implementation of this section to the congressional defense committees
                  
                  
                     (2)
                     Briefing
                     Not later than 1 year after the date of the enactment of this Act and each year thereafter until the sunset date in subsection (d), the Secretary of Defense shall submit a briefing to the congressional defense committees on the implementation of this section. Such a briefing shall include the following:
                     
                        (A)
                        The total amount of individuals affected by the supplemental guidance.
                     
                     
                        (B)
                        If the supplemental guidance authority was adopted, the number of days required to change employee rates of pay compared to the number of days required to change such rates prior to adoption.
                     
                     
                        (C)
                        The impacts on competitive service employee retention and recruitment.
                     
                     
                        (D)
                        Any discrepancies in pay for competitive service positions across Armed Forces and military installations as a result of such supplemental guidance.
                     
                  
               
               
                  (d)
                  Sunset
                  The supplemental guidance established under this section shall terminate on December 31, 2027.
               
            
            
               1111.
                TREATMENT OF VETERANS WHO DID NOT REGISTER FOR THE SELECTIVE SERVICE
               Section 3328 of title 5, United States Code, is amended—
               
                  (1)
                  in subsection (a)(1), by striking (50 U.S.C. App. 453) and inserting (50 U.S.C. 3802);
               
               
                  (2)
                  by redesignating subsection (b) as subsection (c);
               
               
                  (3)
                  by inserting after subsection (a) the following new subsection:
                  
                     
                        (b)
                        Subsection (a) shall not apply to an individual—
                        
                           (1)
                           who is a veteran;
                        
                        
                           (2)
                           who provides evidence of active-duty service to the Executive agency in which the individual seeks an appointment; and
                        
                        
                           (3)
                           for whom the requirement to register under section 3 of the Military Selective Service Act (50 U.S.C. 3802) has terminated or is now inapplicable.
                        
                     
                     ; and
                  
               
               
                  (4)
                  by adding at the end the following new subsection:
                  
                     
                        (d)
                        In this section, the terms active duty and veteran have the meaning given those terms in section 101 of title 38.
                     
                     .
                  
               
            
            
               1112.
                INCREASE IN MILITARY LEAVE ACCRUAL AND ACCUMULATION FOR FEDERAL EMPLOYEES
               Section 6323(a)(1) of title 5, United States Code, is amended by striking 15 days each place it appears and inserting 20 days.
            
            
               1113.
                FLEXIBILITIES FOR FEDERAL EMPLOYEES WHO ARE ARMED FORCES SPOUSES
               
                  (a)
                  In general
                  Not later than 30 calendar days after receiving a request from a covered individual, the head of the agency or instrumentality of the Federal Government employing such covered individual shall—
                  
                     (1)
                     to the extent practicable, authorize such covered individual to work remotely if the head determines that the duties of such covered individual can be completed remotely;
                  
                  
                     (2)
                     reassign the covered individual to a position, for which the individual is qualified and of equal status and base pay, in the agency or instrumentality in the commuting area of the new permanent duty location of the spouse of such covered individual;
                  
                  
                     (3)
                     authorize the covered individual to perform the duties of a different position of equal status and base pay in the agency or instrumentality for which the individual is qualified from an approved alternative worksite; or
                  
                  
                     (4)
                     in the case of a covered individual who is not authorized or able to be reassigned under paragraphs (1), (2), or (3), upon the request of the covered individual, grant that individual leave without pay for up to six months.
                  
               
               
                  (b)
                  Waiver
                  The Director of the Office of Personnel Management may grant an agency or instrumentality of the Federal Government a waiver of subsection (a) if the Director certifies that the agency or instrumentality has developed and will faithfully implement, immediately upon receipt of the waiver, a substantially similar procedure that—
                  
                     (1)
                     aims to increase the retention of covered individuals;
                  
                  
                     (2)
                     provides covered individuals an evaluation, upon the request of any such individual, on whether retention can be achieved, at a minimum, through remote work or reassignment, or both;
                  
                  
                     (3)
                     provides the covered individual, within 30 days of the request of such individual, a date certain by which the agency will make a determination unless the date extended by mutual agreement of the agency and individual;
                  
                  
                     (4)
                     provides the application of subsection (a)(4) as an option the covered individual may choose; and
                  
                  
                     (5)
                     implements reporting requirements in subsection (d).
                  
               
               
                  (c)
                  Leave without pay
                  A position held by a covered individual who is granted leave without pay under this section shall not be considered encumbered and may be backfilled by a permanent employee.
               
               
                  (d)
                  Reports
                  
                     (1)
                     Agency reports to OPM
                     Not later than September 30 of the second full fiscal year after the date of the enactment of this Act, and biennially thereafter for the following four years, the head of each agency or instrumentality of the Federal Government shall submit to the Director of the Office of Personnel Management—
                     
                        (A)
                        a list of each request received by such head under subsection (a) during the immediately preceding fiscal year; and
                     
                     
                        (B)
                        which action was taken by the head under such subsection with respect to such a request.
                     
                  
                  
                     (2)
                     Report to Congress
                     Not later than the first April 15 following the date on which the head of an agency or instrumentality submits the first report under paragraph (1), and biennially thereafter for the following four years, the Director shall provide a report to Congress detailing the information received under paragraph (1), sorted by agency or instrumentality.
                  
               
               
                  (e)
                  Rehiring of separated individuals
                  
                     (1)
                     In general
                     An individual covered by subsection (a)(4) shall be covered by this subsection until the individual re-enters the Federal service.
                  
                  
                     (2)
                     Reinstatement authority
                     The duration of the relocation orders of the spouse of an individual covered by subsection (a)(4) shall not count against the three-year limit for reinstatement of non-career tenure individuals under section 315.401 of title 5, Code of Federal Regulations (or any successor regulation).
                  
               
               
                  (f)
                  Effective date
                  This Act shall take effect 180 days after the date of the enactment of this Act, except that the Director may, beginning on the date of the enactment of this Act, approve waivers pursuant to section 2(b) if an agency or instrumentality of the Federal Government has in place on such date of enactment policies and procedures that would qualify for waiver under such section.
               
               
                  (g)
                  Covered individual defined
                  In this section, the term covered individual means an individual—
                  
                     (1)
                     who is the spouse of a member of the armed forces serving on active duty (as defined in section 3330d of title 5, United States Code);
                  
                  
                     (2)
                     who is an employee of an agency or instrumentality of the Federal Government;
                  
                  
                     (3)
                     whose duties as such an employee do not include— 
                     
                        (A)
                        developing, refining, or implementing diversity, equity, and inclusion policies;
                     
                     
                        (B)
                        leading working groups or advisory councils developing measurements of diversity, equity, and inclusion performance or outcomes; or
                     
                     
                        (C)
                        creating or implementing education, training courses, or workshops on diversity, equity, and inclusion for military or civilian employees of the Federal Government; and
                     
                  
                  
                     (4)
                     who relocates with the spouse of such individual because such spouse, as such a member, receives a permanent change of station or similar requirement to relocate.
                  
               
            
            
               1114.
               GAO REPORT ON HOME-BASED BUSINESSES AT REMOTE MILITARY INSTALLATIONS
               
                  (a)
                  In general
                  In order to address critical quality of life, morale, and welfare issues, not later than one year after the date of enactment of this Act, the Comptroller General shall assess and submit a report to the Secretary of Defense on the following:
                  
                     (1)
                     The average number of Home-Based Businesses operating at remote and isolated installations in the United States in comparison to Home-Based Businesses operating at other military installations. In carrying out this paragraph, the Comptroller General shall account for the differences in military population size.
                  
                  
                     (2)
                     The average rate of approval for new Home-Based Businesses at remote and isolated United States installations in comparison to new approvals for new Home-Based Businesses operating at other military installations, by military service.
                  
                  
                     (3)
                     The average number of days required for a Home-Based Business application to be approved at remote and isolated United States installations in comparison to similar Home-Based Business applications (to the greatest extent practicable) at other military installations, by military service.
                  
                  
                     (4)
                     The effectiveness of each services’ utilization and implementation of the Home-Based Business program.
                  
                  
                     (5)
                     Any recommendations on—
                     
                        (A)
                        additional incentives for military personnel, Department of Defense civilian employees, and their family members to establish Home-Based Businesses at remote and isolated installations to more effectively ensure that the quality-of-life services provided through the program meet the mission of their applicable military installation;
                     
                     
                        (B)
                        additional commercial products and services that are eligible to be provided through the Home-Based Businesses program; and
                     
                     
                        (C)
                        ways to simplify, streamline, and generally improve the approval and application process for Home-Based Business applications.
                     
                  
               
               
                  (b)
                  Definitions
                  In this section—
                  
                     (1)
                     the term effectiveness means the capability of increasing the quality of life for servicemembers and their families residing on a military installation; and
                  
                  
                     (2)
                     the term military installation has the meaning given that term in section 2801 of title 10, United States Code.
                  
               
            
            
               1115.
               EXPAND DEPARTMENT OF DEFENSE CIVILIAN EMPLOYMENT
               
                  (a)
                  In general
                  Not later than 5 years after the date of the enactment of this section, the Secretary of Defense shall ensure that, to the extent practicable, each commercial position in the Department of Defense or an element of the Department is—
                  
                     (1)
                     filled by a civilian employee of the Department; or
                  
                  
                     (2)
                     performed by a contractor of the Department.
                  
               
               
                  (b)
                  Commercial position defined
                  In this section, the term commercial position means a position the functions of which are determined by the Department of Defense to be commercial pursuant to Department of Defense Instruction 1100.22 (or any successor instruction).
               
            
            
               1116.
               LIMITATION ON ESTABLISHMENT OF NEW DIVERSITY, EQUITY, AND INCLUSION POSITIONS; HIRING FREEZE
               
                  (a)
                  In general
                  Beginning on January 1, 2025, the Secretary of Defense may not—
                  
                     (1)
                     establish any new positions within the Department of Defense with responsibility for matters relating to diversity, equity, and inclusion; or
                  
                  
                     (2)
                     fill any vacancies in positions in the Department with responsibility for such matters.
                  
               
               
                  (b)
                  Rule of construction
                  Nothing in this section may be construed to prevent the Secretary from reducing the number of positions relating to diversity, equity, and inclusion or from eliminating specific positions relating to diversity, equity, and inclusion.
               
            
            
               1117.
               OMB EMPLOYMENT FORM REQUIREMENT FOR DOD CONTRACTORS
               The Secretary shall require all individuals hired to Department of Defense contracts to use Declaration for Federal Employment Form OMB No. 3206-0812.
            
            
               1118.
               SUFFICIENT FIREFIGHTER PERSONNEL COVERED INSTALLATIONS
               
                  (a)
                  In general
                  The Secretary of Defense shall ensure that—
                  
                     (1)
                     a minimum number of firefighter personnel are on duty at each covered installation to maintain optimum manning and optimum level of service to safeguard life and property at such covered installation; and
                  
                  
                     (2)
                     a risk assessment may not be used to limit the number of firefighter personnel at a covered installation. 
                  
               
               
                  (b)
                  Covered installation defined
                  The term covered installation means a military installation under the jurisdiction of the Chief of Space Operations of the United States Space Force with a space launch facility.
               
            
         
         
            XII
            MATTERS RELATING TO FOREIGN NATIONS
            
               A
               Assistance and training
               
                  1201.
                  MODIFICATION OF DEPARTMENT OF DEFENSE STATE PARTNERSHIP PROGRAM
                  Section 341(e)(1)(A) of title 10, United States Code, is amended by adding at the end before the semicolon the following: , including costs incurred with respect to activities beginning in one fiscal year and ending not later than the end of the first fiscal year thereafter.
               
               
                  1202.
                  ASSESSMENT, MONITORING, AND EVALUATION OF PROGRAMS AND ACTIVITIES
                  Section 383(d)(1)(B) of title 10, United States Code, is amended by inserting , including a description of challenges in executing the program, after lessons learned. 
               
               
                  1203.
                  MODIFICATION OF DEPARTMENT OF DEFENSE SUPPORT TO STABILIZATION ACTIVITIES
                  Section 1210A of the National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2020 (Public Law 116–92) is amended—
                  
                     (1)
                     in subsection (b)(2)—
                     
                        (A)
                        by striking subparagraph (C); and
                     
                     
                        (B)
                        by redesignating subparagraph (D) as subparagraph (C);
                     
                  
                  
                     (2)
                     in subsection (c)(1), in the first sentence, by striking or nonreimbursable; and
                  
                  
                     (3)
                     in subsection (g)—
                     
                        (A)
                        by striking 
                              use of funds
                            and all that follows through Amounts and inserting 
                              use of funds.—Amounts; and
                     
                     
                        (B)
                        by striking paragraph (2).
                     
                  
               
               
                  1204.
                  EXTENSION AND MODIFICATION OF DEFENSE OPERATIONAL RESILIENCE INTERNATIONAL COOPERATION PILOT PROGRAM
                  Section 1212 of the National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2023 (10 U.S.C. 311 note) is amended—
                  
                     (1)
                     in subsection (b), by striking December 31, 2025 and inserting December 31, 2027;
                  
                  
                     (2)
                     in subsection (d), by striking 2025 and inserting 2027; and
                  
                  
                     (3)
                     in subsection (f), by striking 2025 and inserting 2027. 
                  
               
               
                  1205.
                  REPORT ON COMPLIANCE BY THE DEPARTMENT OF DEFENSE WITH THE LIMITATION ON MILITARY-TO-MILITARY EXCHANGE OR CONTACT WITH REPRESENTATIVES OF THE CHINESE PEOPLE’S LIBERATION ARMY
                  
                     (a)
                     In general
                     Not later than 180 days after the date of the enactment of this Act, the Secretary of Defense shall submit to Congress a report that describes compliance by the Department of Defense with the limitation on military-to-military exchange or contact with representatives of the People’s Liberation Army of the People’s Republic of China under section 1201 of the National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2000 (10 U.S.C. 168 note).
                  
                  
                     (b)
                     Matters to be included
                     The report required by subsection (a) shall include—
                     
                        (1)
                        a description of measures the Department of Defense is taking to mitigate the risk of the People’s Liberation Army gaining indirect knowledge of United States Armed Forces’ equipment and operational tactics, techniques, and products through interaction with the militaries of United States allies and partners; and
                     
                     
                        (2)
                        an identification of any obstacles to ensuring United States allies and partners are sufficiently aware of the risk described in paragraph (1) and on conducting the necessary follow-up and end-use monitoring to ensure compliance by such allies and partners.
                     
                  
               
               
                  1206.
                  GENERAL THADDEUS KOSCIUSZKO MEMORIAL EXCHANGE PROGRAM FOR POLISH-AMERICAN DEFENSE COOPERATION
                  
                     (a)
                     Authority
                     The Commander of United States Army Special Operations Command shall seek to carry out a training program pursuant to section 322 of title 10, United States Code, between special operations forces under the jurisdiction of the Commander and special forces of the Polish Army. Such program shall be known as the General Thaddeus Kosciuszko Memorial Exchange Program for Polish-American Defense Cooperation.
                  
                  
                     (b)
                     Eligibility
                     Officers and enlisted members of such special operations forces may participate in the program under this section.
                  
                  
                     (c)
                     Progress report
                     Not later than 120 days after the date of the enactment of this Act, the Commander shall submit to the Committees on Armed Services of the Senate and House of Representatives a report regarding progress of the Commander in carrying out the program under this section.
                  
               
               
                  1207.
                  REPORT ON COOPERATION BETWEEN THE NATIONAL GUARD AND THE REPUBLIC OF INDIA
                  
                     (a)
                     Report required
                     Not later than February 15, 2024, the Secretary of Defense shall submit to the appropriate congressional committees a report on the feasibility and advisability of enhanced cooperation between the National Guard and the Republic of India. Such report shall include the following elements:
                     
                        (1)
                        A description of the cooperation between the National Guard and India during the 10 preceding calendar years, including mutual visits, exercises, training, and equipment opportunities.
                     
                     
                        (2)
                        An evaluation of the feasibility and advisability of enhancing cooperation between the National Guard and India on a range of activities, including—
                        
                           (A)
                           disaster and emergency response;
                        
                        
                           (B)
                           cyber defense and communications security;
                        
                        
                           (C)
                           military medical cooperation;
                        
                        
                           (D)
                           mountain warfare;
                        
                        
                           (E)
                           jungle warfare;
                        
                        
                           (F)
                           counterinsurgency;
                        
                        
                           (G)
                           counterterrorism;
                        
                        
                           (H)
                           cultural exchange and education of members of the National Guard in Hindi; and
                        
                        
                           (I)
                           programs for National Guard advisors to assist in training the reserve components of the military forces of India.
                        
                     
                     
                        (3)
                        Recommendations to enhance such cooperation and improve interoperability, including through familiarization visits, cooperative training and exercises, and co-deployments.
                     
                     
                        (4)
                        Identification of States that may serve as potential partners with India through a State partnership under section 341 of title 10, United States Code.
                     
                     
                        (5)
                        Any other matter the Secretary of Defense determines appropriate.
                     
                  
                  
                     (b)
                     Appropriate congressional committees defined
                     In this section, the term appropriate congressional committees means—
                     
                        (1)
                        the congressional defense committees;
                     
                     
                        (2)
                        the Committee on Foreign Relations of the Senate;
                     
                     
                        (3)
                        the Committee on Foreign Affairs of the House of Representatives.
                     
                  
               
            
            
               B
               Matters relating to the Near and Middle East
               
                  1211.
                  EXTENSION AND MODIFICATION OF AUTHORITY TO PROVIDE ASSISTANCE TO COUNTER THE ISLAMIC STATE OF IRAQ AND SYRIA
                  
                     (a)
                     In general
                     Subsection (a) of section 1236 of the Carl Levin and Howard P. “Buck” McKeon National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2015 (Public Law 113–291; 128 Stat. 3559) is amended in the matter preceding paragraph (1) by striking December 31, 2024 and inserting December 31, 2025. 
                  
                  
                     (b)
                     Funding
                     Subsection (g) of such section is amended by striking fiscal year 2024, there are authorized to be appropriated $241,950,000 and inserting fiscal year 2025, there are authorized to be appropriated $380,000,000..
                  
                  
                     (c)
                     Waiver authority
                     Subsection (o)(6) of such section is amended by striking December 31, 2024 and inserting December 31, 2025.
                  
               
               
                  1212.
                  EXTENSION OF AUTHORITY TO PROVIDE ASSISTANCE TO VETTED SYRIAN GROUPS AND INDIVIDUALS
                  Section 1209 of the Carl Levin and Howard P. “Buck” McKeon National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2015 (Public Law 113–291; 128 Stat. 3559) is amended—
                  
                     (1)
                     in subsection (a), in the matter preceding paragraph (1), by striking December 31, 2024 and inserting December 31, 2025; and
                  
                  
                     (2)
                     in subsection (l)(3)(E), by striking December 31, 2024 and inserting December 31, 2025.
                  
               
               
                  1213.
                  EXTENSION AND MODIFICATION OF ANNUAL REPORT ON MILITARY POWER OF IRAN
                  
                     (a)
                     Matters to be included
                     Subsection (b) of section 1245 of the National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2010 (10 U.S.C. 113 note) is amended—
                     
                        (1)
                        in paragraph (1)—
                        
                           (A)
                           in subparagraph (C), by striking and at the end and inserting a semicolon;
                        
                        
                           (B)
                           in subparagraph (D), by striking the period at the end and inserting ; and;
                        
                        
                           (C)
                           by redesignating subparagraphs (B), (C), and (D), as subparagraphs (C), (D), and (E), respectively; and
                        
                        
                           (D)
                           by inserting after subparagraph (A) the following subparagraph:
                           
                              
                                 (B)
                                 any adjustments to the use of proxy forces by Iran;
                              
                              ;
                           
                        
                     
                     
                        (2)
                        in paragraph (2)—
                        
                           (A)
                           in subparagraph (B), by striking an analysis of;
                        
                        
                           (B)
                           in subparagraph (C), by striking ; and at the end and inserting a semicolon; and
                        
                        
                           (C)
                           in subparagraph (D), by striking ; and at the end and inserting , including Iranian anti-access or area denial and other maritime harassment capabilities; and;
                        
                     
                     
                        (3)
                        in paragraph (3)—
                        
                           (A)
                           in subparagraph (A), by striking Iranian Revolutionary Guard and inserting Islamic Revolutionary Guard;
                        
                        
                           (B)
                           in subparagraph (J), by striking the period at the end and inserting ; and;
                        
                        
                           (C)
                           by redesignating subparagraphs (E) through (J) as subparagraphs (F) through (K), respectively; and
                        
                        
                           (D)
                           by inserting after subparagraph (D) the following subparagraph:
                           
                              
                                 (E)
                                 the role of Iran in supporting, facilitating, directing, or conducting attacks on United States forces in the region;
                              
                              ;
                           
                        
                     
                     
                        (4)
                        in paragraph (4)—
                        
                           (A)
                           in subparagraph (B), by striking and storage sites; and inserting , storage, and production sites;;
                        
                        
                           (B)
                           in subparagraph (E), by inserting an intermediate-range ballistic missile or after develop and field; and
                        
                        
                           (C)
                           in subparagraph (F), by striking ; and at the end and inserting and the exportation of Iranian drones to the Middle East and Europe; and;
                        
                     
                     
                        (5)
                        in paragraph (12), by striking (9) and inserting (12);
                     
                     
                        (6)
                        by redesignating paragraphs (9) through (12) as paragraphs (10) through (13), respectively;
                     
                     
                        (7)
                        by inserting after paragraph (8) the following:
                        
                           
                              (9)
                              An assessment of the use of civilians by groups supported by Iran to shield military objectives from attack, including groups such as—
                              
                                 (A)
                                 Hezbollah, Hamas, and the Houthis; and
                              
                              
                                 (B)
                                 the Special Groups in Iraq.
                              
                           
                           ; and
                        
                     
                     
                        (8)
                        by adding at the end the following:
                        
                           
                              (14)
                              An assessment of the manner and extent to which the advances or improvements in the capabilities of Iran’s conventional and unconventional forces described in this section have affected Israel’s qualitative military edge during the preceding year.
                           
                           .
                        
                     
                  
                  
                     (b)
                     Definitions
                     Subsection (c) of such section is amended—
                     
                        (1)
                        in paragraph (2)(B)(i), by striking Iranian and inserting Islamic;
                     
                     
                        (2)
                        in paragraph (2)(B)(ii)(bb), by inserting or its regional interests before the period at the end; and
                     
                     
                        (3)
                        in paragraph (4), by striking capable of flights less than 500 kilometers..
                     
                  
                  
                     (c)
                     Termination
                     Subsection (d) of such section is amended by striking December 31, 2025 and inserting December 31, 2026.
                  
               
               
                  1214.
                  HELP ISRAEL RECOVER THE HOSTAGES
                  
                     (a)
                     Findings
                     Congress finds the following:
                     
                        (1)
                        There has been substantial and sustained cooperation between United States diplomatic, military, and intelligence agencies and Israeli counterparts to help Israel release those taken hostage on the attacks of October 7th, 2023.
                     
                     
                        (2)
                        Multiple proposals for returning the hostages and implementing a ceasefire have been developed with the help of the United States and international partners and presented to both Israel and Hamas. 
                     
                     
                        (3)
                        Hamas has impeded or outright rejected these proposals, refusing to release the hostages and extending the suffering of civilians on both sides of the border.
                     
                     
                        (4)
                        The global community, including the United States, must exert necessary pressure on Hamas leadership to accept a ceasefire proposal, release the hostages and relinquish governing control of Gaza.
                     
                     
                        (5)
                        It is imperative that the United States continues to work with international partners to release the remaining hostages, including 8 Americans.
                     
                  
                  
                     (b)
                     Briefing
                     
                        (1)
                        In general
                        Not later than 30 days after the date of the enactment of this section, the Secretary of Defense, in consultation with the Secretary of State and the Director of National Intelligence, shall provide a briefing to the congressional defense committees, the Committee on Foreign Affairs of the House of Representatives, the Committee on Foreign Relations of the Senate, and the House and Senate Permanent Select Committees on Intelligence that contains an overview of United States diplomatic, military, and intelligence support for Israel as it works to release the hostages. 
                     
                     
                        (2)
                        Contents
                        The briefing required under paragraph (1) shall contain the following, relating to supporting the release of the hostages:
                        
                           (A)
                           An overview of United States military assistance to Israel.
                        
                        
                           (B)
                           How the United States military is assisting the Israeli military on hostage rescue planning and recovery efforts.
                        
                        
                           (C)
                           Intelligence sharing in support of hostage release. 
                        
                        
                           (D)
                           United States personnel embedded or regularly liaising with Israel’s military, intelligence, and diplomatic officials.
                        
                        
                           (E)
                           A description of how the United States is leveraging partner nations to assist with hostage release efforts. 
                        
                        
                           (F)
                           Any other forms of assistance provided the Secretary determines relevant to Israel’s efforts to release the hostages.
                        
                     
                     
                        (3)
                        Form
                        The briefing required under paragraph (1) shall be provided in unclassified form, but may contain a classified annex. 
                     
                  
                  
                     (c)
                     Hostages defined
                     In this section, the term hostages means the individuals (alive or deceased) taken by Hamas from Israel during the attacks of October 7, 2023, and the immediate aftermath, including Israelis, Americans, and citizens of other more than 22 other nations.
                  
               
               
                  1215.
                  STATEMENT OF CONGRESS RELATING TO ISRAEL AND THE HOSTAGES HELD BY HAMAS
                  Congress—
                  
                     (1)
                     declares that Israel is the United States’ greatest ally in the Middle East; and
                  
                  
                     (2)
                     demands the release of all hostages held captive by Hamas and their return to safety.
                  
               
               
                  1216.
                  KEY PARTNERS FOR MIDDLE EAST REGIONAL INTEGRATION MILITARY SUBJECT MATTER EXPERT EXCHANGE PROGRAM
                  
                     (a)
                     In general
                     The Secretary of Defense, using existing authorities, including section 311 of title 10, United States Code, as applicable, and in consultation with the head of any other Federal agency, as appropriate, shall design and implement a foreign military officer subject matter expert exchange program to be known as the  Middle East Regional Integration Military Subject Matter Expert Exchange Program (referred to in this section as the exchange program).
                  
                  
                     (b)
                     Purpose
                     The purpose of the exchange program shall be to facilitate interaction, cultural exchange, and mutual learning of members of participating militaries in support of Middle East regional integration in order to deepen and expand such integration.
                  
                  
                     (c)
                     Membership
                     
                        (1)
                        Composition
                        The exchange program shall be composed of members of the armed forces of participating militaries in support of Middle East regional integration and members of the Armed Forces of the United States. 
                     
                     
                        (2)
                        Subject matter
                        
                           (A)
                           In general
                           The Secretary of Defense shall select exchange program participants with a wide range of experiences collectively covering the tactical, operational, and strategic levels.
                        
                        
                           (B)
                           Participant pay grade levels
                           The Secretary of Defense shall include in the exchange program participants at each of the following military pay grades, or equivalent foreign military pay grades:
                           
                              (i)
                              E-7 through E-9. 
                           
                           
                              (ii)
                              CW-3 through CW-5. 
                           
                           
                              (iii)
                              O-3 through O-9.
                           
                           
                              (iv)
                              Such other pay grade levels at the discretion of the Secretary of Defense.
                           
                        
                        
                           (C)
                           Expertise
                           A participant in the exchange program shall have expertise in one or more of the following subject matter areas:
                           
                              (i)
                              Strategic doctrine.
                           
                           
                              (ii)
                              Defense planning.
                           
                           
                              (iii)
                              Civilian and military relations.
                           
                           
                              (iv)
                              Military law.
                           
                           
                              (v)
                              Public affairs.
                           
                           
                              (vi)
                              Civil affairs.
                           
                           
                              (vii)
                              Military budgeting and acquisition. 
                           
                           
                              (viii)
                              Integrated air and missile defense.
                           
                           
                              (ix)
                              Integrated maritime domain awareness and interdiction.
                           
                           
                              (x)
                              Cyber resilience and defense.
                           
                           
                              (xi)
                              Counterterrorism.
                           
                           
                              (xii)
                              Defense information sharing.
                           
                           
                              (xiii)
                              Any other subject matter area that the Secretary of Defense determines to be appropriate.
                           
                        
                     
                  
                  
                     (d)
                     Exchange program content
                     The exchange program—
                     
                        (1)
                        shall include learning modalities and methods, as determined by the Exchange Program Coordinator;
                     
                     
                        (2)
                        may include separate agendas and experiences for participants in order to—
                        
                           (A)
                           facilitate interaction on particular topics; 
                        
                        
                           (B)
                           cater to participant backgrounds or rank levels; or 
                        
                        
                           (C)
                           achieve other pedagogical ends as determined by the Exchange Program Coordinator; and
                        
                     
                     
                        (3)
                        may include discussion, comparison, and information regarding the development of—
                        
                           (A)
                           defense doctrine;
                        
                        
                           (B)
                           exercise development;
                        
                        
                           (C)
                           budget planning;
                        
                        
                           (D)
                           military law and law of armed conflict;
                        
                        
                           (E)
                           military cooperation with civilian agencies; 
                        
                        
                           (F)
                           standard operating procedures;
                        
                        
                           (G)
                           operational plans and the operational art;
                        
                        
                           (H)
                           gaps and opportunities for improvement in existing procedures and plans;
                        
                        
                           (I)
                           existing technical challenges;
                        
                        
                           (J)
                           emerging technical challenges;
                        
                        
                           (K)
                           the current and future threat environment;
                        
                        
                           (L)
                           trust and capacity for multilateral sharing of information;
                        
                        
                           (M)
                           additional mechanisms and ideas for integrated cooperation; 
                        
                        
                           (N)
                           ways to promote the meaningful participation of women in matters of peace and security; and 
                        
                        
                           (O)
                           other content, as appropriate, developed to advance integration and tactical, operational, and strategic proficiency.
                        
                     
                  
                  
                     (e)
                     Meetings
                     Participants in the exchange program shall meet in-person not less frequently than quarterly.
                  
                  
                     (f)
                     Exchange Program Coordinator
                     
                        (1)
                        In general
                        The Secretary of Defense shall designate an Exchange Program Coordinator, who shall be assigned to a Department of Defense School, to oversee the exchange program. 
                     
                     
                        (2)
                        Duties
                        (2) The Exchange Program Coordinator shall—
                        
                           (A)
                           design the exchange program; 
                        
                        
                           (B)
                           ensure that the exchange program complies with the requirements of this section;
                        
                        
                           (C)
                           provide to the Secretary of Defense reports on developments, insights, and progress of the exchange program; and
                        
                        
                           (D)
                           notify the Secretary of Defense of any failures of the exchange program to comply with the in-person requirements of subsection (e). 
                        
                     
                     
                        (3)
                        Notification to Congress
                        Not later than 15 days after receiving a notification under paragraph (2)(D), the Secretary of Defense shall submit to the Committee on Armed Services of the Senate and the Committee on Armed Services of the House of Representatives a report describing—
                        
                           (A)
                           the reasons an in-person meeting did not occur during such quarter; and
                        
                        
                           (B)
                           any measures taken to ensure that an in-person meeting occurs during the following quarter. 
                        
                     
                  
                  
                     (g)
                     Report
                     
                        (1)
                        In general
                        Not later than 1 year after the date of the enactment of this Act, and annually thereafter for 5 years, the Secretary of Defense shall submit to the Committee on Armed Services of the Senate and the Committee on Armed Services of the House of Representatives a report that includes—
                        
                           (A)
                           a summary of the activities of the exchange program during the prior year, including—
                           
                              (i)
                              the countries participating;
                           
                           
                              (ii)
                              the subject matter covered;
                           
                           
                              (iii)
                              developments, insights, and progress achieved through the program; and 
                           
                           
                              (iv)
                              any new topics added to the exchange as well as a justification for adding the new topic; 
                           
                        
                        
                           (B)
                           an assessment of the effectiveness of the exchange program; and
                        
                        
                           (C)
                           recommendations on further improvements to the exchange program.
                        
                     
                     
                        (2)
                        Form
                        The report required by paragraph (1) shall be submitted in unclassified form but may include a classified annex.
                     
                  
                  
                     (h)
                     Definitions
                     In this section:
                     
                        (1)
                        Department of Defense school
                        The term Department of Defense school means any institution listed in section 1595(c) or section 2162(d) of title 10, United States Code.
                     
                     
                        (2)
                        Participating militaries in support of Middle East regional integration
                        The term participating militaries in support of Middle East regional integration means military allies and partner forces of the United States working to advance regional integration in the Middle East.
                     
                  
               
               
                  1217.
                  SENSE OF CONGRESS REGARDING ISRAEL
                  It is the sense of Congress that—
                  
                     (1)
                     since 1948, Israel has been one of the strongest friends and allies of the United States;
                  
                  
                     (2)
                     Israel is a stable, democratic country in a region often marred by turmoil;
                  
                  
                     (3)
                     it is essential to the strategic interest of the United States to continue to offer security assistance and related support to Israel; and
                  
                  
                     (4)
                     such assistance and support is especially vital as Israel confronts a number of potential challenges at the present time, including continuing threats from Iran.
                  
               
               
                  1218.
                  STUDY AND REPORT ON INTERNATIONAL SECURITY MEASURES ON THE BORDER BETWEEN GAZA AND EGYPT
                  
                     (a)
                     In general
                     The Secretary of Defense, in coordination with the Secretary of State, shall conduct a study on steps that Israel, Egypt, and the United States can take to enhance international security measures on the border between Gaza and Egypt to ensure Hamas and other actors do not use tunnels or methods via the Mediterranean Sea to smuggle weapons and illicit goods.
                  
                  
                     (b)
                     Report
                     
                        (1)
                        In general
                        The Secretary shall submit to the appropriate congressional committees a report that contains the results of the study.
                     
                     
                        (2)
                        Matters to be included
                        The report required by this subsection shall include a description and map indicating existing tunnels on the border between Gaza and Egypt.
                     
                     
                        (3)
                        Definition
                        In this subsection, the term appropriate congressional committees means—
                        
                           (A)
                           the Committee on Armed Services and the Committee on Foreign Affairs of the House of Representatives; and
                        
                        
                           (B)
                           the Committee on Armed Services and the Committee on Foreign Relations of the Senate.
                        
                     
                  
               
               
                  1219.
                  PROHIBITION ON PROVIDING FUNDING TO IRANIAN ENTITIES
                  
                     (a)
                     In general
                     None of the funds authorized to be appropriated to the Department of Defense or otherwise made available by this Act may be made available, directly or indirectly, to—
                     
                        (1)
                        the Government of Iran;
                     
                     
                        (2)
                        any person owned or controlled by the Government of Iran;
                     
                     
                        (3)
                        any person that is on the List of Specially Designated Nationals and Blocked Persons maintained by the Office of Foreign Assets Control of the Department of the Treasury and the property and interests in property of which are blocked pursuant to the International Emergency Economic Powers Act; or
                     
                     
                        (4)
                        any person owned or controlled by a person described in paragraph (3).
                     
                  
                  
                     (b)
                     Exception for intelligence activities
                     The prohibition under subsection (a) shall not apply with respect to activities subject to the reporting requirements under title V of the National Security Act of 1947 (50 U.S.C. 3091 et seq.) or any authorized intelligence activities of the United States.
                  
               
               
                  1220.
                  REPORT ON AGREEMENTS MADE BY THE UNITED STATES WITH THE TALIBAN
                  
                     (a)
                     Congressional review of agreements made with the Taliban
                     The Secretary of State, in coordination with the Secretary of Defense and the Administrator of the United States Agency for International Development, shall submit to the appropriate congressional committees the following:
                     
                        (1)
                        Any agreement made and entered into by the United States and the Taliban. Submission thereof shall occur not later than 30 days prior to entry absent notification to the appropriate congressional committees, in which case submission thereof shall occur not later than 10 days prior to taking effect.
                     
                     
                        (2)
                        Any agreement made and entered into by third parties and the Taliban or notice of any such agreement. Submission of any such agreement or notice thereof shall occur not later than 30 days after custody by the United States.
                     
                  
                  
                     (b)
                     Report on prior agreements with the Taliban
                     Not later than 90 days after the date of the enactment of this Act, the Secretary of State, in coordination with the Secretary of Defense and the Administrator of the United States Agency for International Development, shall submit to the appropriate congressional committees any agreements made and entered into by the United States or third parties and the Taliban from August 1, 2021, until such date of enactment.
                  
                  
                     (c)
                     Definitions
                     In this section:
                     
                        (1)
                        Agreement
                        The term agreement includes memoranda of understanding and other manifestations of mutual assent. 
                     
                     
                        (2)
                        Appropriate congressional committees
                        The term appropriate congressional committees means the congressional defense committees, the Committee on Foreign Affairs of the House of Representatives, and the Committee on Foreign Relations of the Senate.
                     
                     
                        (3)
                        Third parties
                        The term third parties means organizations or entities in receipt of United States Government funding, including sub-recipients thereof.
                     
                  
               
               
                  1220A.
                  MODIFICATION OF REPORT ON THE MILITARY CAPABILITIES OF IRAN AND RELATED ACTIVITIES
                  Section 1227 of the National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2022 (Public Law 117–81) is amended—
                  
                     (1)
                     in subsection (a)—
                     
                        (A)
                        in paragraph (1)—
                        
                           (i)
                           in subparagraph (A)—
                           
                              (I)
                              by inserting all branches of before the Islamic Revolutionary Guard Corps; and
                           
                           
                              (II)
                              by inserting including before the Quds Force; and
                           
                        
                        
                           (ii)
                           in subparagraph (B), by inserting , and technologies as described in the Missile Technology Control Regime before , including; and
                        
                     
                     
                        (B)
                        in paragraph (2)—
                        
                           (i)
                           in subparagraph (A), by adding at the end before the period the following: , and on the proliferation, procurement, and production networks of Iran’s drone program;
                        
                        
                           (ii)
                           in subparagraph (F), by adding at the end before the period the following: , and the effect of its expiration on these Iranian proliferation activities;
                        
                        
                           (iii)
                           in subparagraph (H)—
                           
                              (I)
                              in clause (ii), by inserting , and any of their precursors, after narcotics;
                           
                           
                              (II)
                              in clause (iv), by inserting and the Ministry of Intelligence and Security (MOIS) after IRGC; and
                           
                           
                              (III)
                              in clause (v), by adding at the end before the period the following: and MOIS; and
                           
                        
                        
                           (iv)
                           in subparagraph (I)—
                           
                              (I)
                              by inserting and MOIS agents after operatives; and
                           
                           
                              (II)
                              by adding at the end before the period the following: , including disinformation operations, recruitment of local assets, and targeting United States nationals and foreign dissidents; and
                           
                        
                     
                  
                  
                     (2)
                     in subsection (c)—
                     
                        (A)
                        by inserting and annually thereafter for a period not to exceed 4 years after 2024; and
                     
                     
                        (B)
                        by striking in June 2022 inserting on the day after the previous report was submitted. 
                     
                  
               
               
                  1220B.
                  BRIEFING ON IRANIAN SUPPORT FOR NON-STATE ACTORS IN NORTH AFRICA
                  
                     (a)
                     Briefing required
                     Not later than 90 days after the date of the enactment of this Act, the Secretary of Defense shall provide the appropriate congressional committees a briefing on—
                     
                        (1)
                        Iran’s material support for non-state actors in North Africa;
                     
                     
                        (2)
                        threats to the security of United States allies in the region posed by this Iranian support; and
                     
                     
                        (3)
                        recommendations for actions the United States may take to deter Iran from providing this support.
                     
                  
                  
                     (b)
                     Appropriate congressional committees defined
                     In this section, the term appropriate congressional committees means—
                     
                        (1)
                        the Committees on Armed Services of the Senate and the House of Representatives;
                     
                     
                        (2)
                        the Committee on Foreign Relations of the Senate; and
                     
                     
                        (3)
                        the Committee on Foreign Affairs of the House of Representatives.
                     
                  
               
            
            
               C
               Matters relating to Syria
               
                  1221.
                  SENSE OF CONGRESS
                  It is the sense of Congress that the Department of Defense has executed robust and important defense of Al Tanf Garrison before and after the October 7, 2023, attacks and has an effective strategy for defeating the Islamic State of Iraq and al-Sham (ISIS).
               
               
                  1222.
                  STRATEGY TO PROTECT THE AL-TANF GARRISON
                  
                     (a)
                     Strategy
                     
                        (1)
                        In general
                        The Secretary of Defense shall develop strategy on protection United States and partner forces at Al-Tanf Garrison in Syria from the threat of Iran-backed militias, ISIS, the Russian Federation, and the Assad regime.
                     
                     
                        (2)
                        Elements
                        The strategy required by paragraph (1) shall include the following:
                        
                           (A)
                           A description of the number of attacks by Iran-backed militias at Al-Tanf Garrison beginning on October 7, 2023, and a description on how to prevent and deter future attacks.
                        
                        
                           (B)
                           A description of how the Department of Defense has assisted with private humanitarian assistance efforts through the Denton Humanitarian Assistance Program with respect to internally displaced persons at the Al-Rukban camp near the Al-Tanf Garrison and a plan with regard to how to continue and expand such efforts, as well as a plan for continued collaboration between Operation Inherent Resolve and nongovernmental organizations to continue to ensure the provision of essential aid and medical assistance for Syrian civilians at the Al-Rukban camp.
                        
                        
                           (C)
                           A description of the Assad regime’s potential role in attacks on United States servicemembers by Iran-backed militias in Syria beginning on October 7, 2023, and a plan by the Department of Defense to prevent, deter, and degrade the Assad regime’s ability to assist with future attacks by Iran-backed militias on Al-Tanf Garrison.
                        
                        
                           (D)
                           A description of Russian violations of deconfliction agreements with the United States at the Al-Tanf Garrison and and a plan to address such violations.
                        
                     
                  
                  
                     (b)
                     Implementation plan
                     Not later than 60 days after the date on which the Secretary of Defense develops the strategy required by subsection (a), the Secretary shall submit to the congressional defense committees, or provide such committees a briefing on, a plan for implementing the strategy.
                  
                  
                     (c)
                     Report
                     
                        (1)
                        In general
                        Not later than 180 days after the date of the enactment of this Act, the Secretary shall submit to the congressional defense committees a report that contains the strategy required by subsection (a).
                     
                     
                        (2)
                        Form
                        The report required by this subsection shall be submitted in an unclassified form, but may contain a classified annex.
                     
                  
               
               
                  1223.
                  REPORT AND STRATEGY ON THE ASSAD REGIME’S RELATIONSHIP WITH ISIS
                  
                     (a)
                     Report
                     
                        (1)
                        In general
                        Not later than 180 days after the date of the enactment of this Act, the Secretary of Defense, in consultation with the head of the Defense Intelligence Agency, shall submit to the appropriate congressional committees a report describing the Assad regime’s cooperation, assistance, and association with ISIS.
                     
                     
                        (2)
                        Elements
                        The report required by paragraph (1) shall include a description of the following:
                        
                           (A)
                           How the Assad regime has focused its military efforts at rebel groups fighting ISIS and the extent to which such efforts helped the growth of ISIS and hindered operations against ISIS.
                        
                        
                           (B)
                           The extent to which Syrian intelligence may have worked with, assisted, facilitated, or tolerated ISIS operatives.
                        
                        
                           (C)
                           The release of jihadists from Syrian prisons by the Assad regime may have had on the rise of ISIS.
                        
                        
                           (D)
                           The extent to which the purchase by the Assad regime of oil, gas, wheat, and grain from ISIS through various intermediaries has added to ISIS’ revenue, and the role that allowing Syrian banks to continue to function and provide financial services within ISIS-held territory had upon ISIS’ revenue.
                        
                        
                           (E)
                           The extent to which the Assad regime’s cooperation, assistance, and association with ISIS has harmed Operation Inherent Resolve and other efforts by the Department of Defense to counter ISIS in Syria.
                        
                        
                           (F)
                           The extent to which the Assad regime’s destructive policies may continue to provide for the resurgence of ISIS.
                        
                     
                  
                  
                     (b)
                     Strategy
                     Not later than 180 days after the submission of the report required by subsection (a), the Secretary of Defense shall develop and submit to the appropriate congressional committees a strategy on how to counter the Assad regime’s cooperation, assistance, and association with ISIS.
                  
                  
                     (c)
                     Form
                     The report required by subsection (a) and the strategy required by subsection (b) shall be submitted in an unclassified form, but may contain a classified annex.
                  
                  
                     (d)
                     Implementation plan required
                     Not later than 60 days after the date on which the Secretary develops the strategy required by subsection (b), the Secretary shall submit to the congressional defense committees, or provide such committees a briefing on, a plan for implementing the strategy.
                  
               
               
                  1224.
                  STRATEGY TO COUNTER THE ASSAD REGIME’S SUPPORT AND COOPERATION WITH IRAN-BACKED MILITIAS IN SYRIA
                  
                     (a)
                     In general
                     Not later than 180 days after the date of the enactment of this Act, the Secretary of Defense, in consultation with the Secretary of State shall develop and submit to the appropriate congressional committees a strategy on the use of its existing authorities to disrupt and degrade threats to the national security of the United States caused by Iran-backed militias in Syria.
                  
                  
                     (b)
                     Contents
                     The strategy required by subsection (a) shall outline how the Department of Defense will—
                     
                        (1)
                        leverages existing authorities to detect and monitor activities related to Iran-backed militias;
                     
                     
                        (2)
                        evaluate existing policies, procedures, processes, and resources of the Department to counter the threat of Iran-backed militias in Syria;
                     
                     
                        (3)
                        protect United States servicemembers from attacks from Iran-backed militias in Syria;
                     
                     
                        (4)
                        make the countering of Iran-backed militias in Syria, including the Assad regime’s support of such militias, a key policy objective in United States policy towards Syria;
                     
                     
                        (5)
                        provide a description of the Assad regime’s potential role in Iran-backed militia attacks against United States servicemembers, specifically attacks on or after October 7, 2023;
                     
                     
                        (6)
                        provide an assessment of the freedom of movement of Iranian proxies particularly between Abu Kamal and the deconfliction zone in eastern Syria and the operational implications of this movement;
                     
                     
                        (7)
                        provide a description of the potential capability of Iran-backed militias to transport weapons and weapons systems from Syria into Lebanon and a plan to counter any such transfers; and
                     
                     
                        (8)
                        provide an assessment of the impact of Iran’s sectarian cleansing and demographic change project in Syria on Iran’s ability to sustain military threats to the United States and its allies and maintain support to Hezbollah in southern Lebanon.
                     
                  
                  
                     (c)
                     Form
                     The strategy required by subsection (b) shall be submitted in unclassified form, but may include a classified annex.
                  
               
               
                  1225.
                  REPORT AND STRATEGY ON RUSSIA’S SUPPORT FOR FOREIGN TERRORIST ORGANIZATIONS IN SYRIA
                  
                     (a)
                     Report and strategy
                     
                        (1)
                        In general
                        Not later than 180 days after the date of the enactment of this Act, the Secretary of Defense, in consultation with the Secretary of State, shall develop and submit to the appropriate congressional committees a report and strategy to utilize existing authorities to counter Russia’s support of foreign terrorist organizations and specially designated global terrorists in Syria.
                     
                     
                        (2)
                        Elements
                        The report and strategy required by paragraph (1) shall include the following elements:
                        
                           (A)
                           A description of past Russian support for Iran’s Islamic Revolutionary Guard Corps (IRGC) in Syria and any current potential support, including military coordination between Russia and the IRGC, as well as any potential transfers of materiel or military supplies between Russia and the IRGC and the extent of coordination on efforts to evade United States sanctions.
                        
                        
                           (B)
                           A description of past Russian military cooperation with Hezbollah in Syria, including Russia’s provision of air support to Hezbollah in Syria during the period from 2013 through 2018, as well as any potential ongoing support as well as a description of the extent of Hezbollah’s role training Russian forces and their affiliates on the use of Iranian-origin unmanned aerial vehicles (UAVs) in Syria.
                        
                        
                           (C)
                           A description of any potential Russian military support for Asa’ib Ahl al-Haq (AAH), Harakat al-Nujaba (HAN) and Akram ‘Abbas al-Kabi, the Fatemiyoun Division, Zaynabiyoun Brigade, and Kata’ib Sayyid al-Shuhada (KSS) and KSS leader Hashim Finyan Rahim al-Saraji.
                        
                        
                           (D)
                           A strategy of How the Department of Defense can utilize existing authorities to detect and monitor activities related to Russia’s military support of terrorists in Syria, including how the Department can evaluate existing policies, procedures, processes, and resources that affect the ability of the Department to counter the threat of Russia’s support of terrorists in Syria.
                        
                        
                           (E)
                           An affirmation by the Department that countering Russia’s support of terrorists in Syria is a key policy objective in United States policy towards Syria.
                        
                        
                           (F)
                           A description of how Russia’s violations of the deconfliction agreement with the United States in Syria may have undermined efforts to combat ISIS in the region and helped destabilize the region and plans to address such violations.
                        
                     
                  
                  
                     (b)
                     Form
                     The report required by subsection (b) shall be submitted in unclassified form, but may include a classified annex.
                  
                  
                     (c)
                     Scope
                     The scope of the report required by subsection (b) shall include the period beginning on January 1, 2014, and ending on the date of the enactment of this Act.
                  
               
               
                  1226.
                  PROHIBITION OF RECOGNITION OF THE ASSAD REGIME
                  
                     (a)
                     Statement of policy
                     It is the policy of the United States—
                     
                        (1)
                        not to recognize or normalize relations with any government of Syria that is led by Bashar al-Assad due to the Assad regime’s ongoing crimes against the Syrian people; and
                     
                     
                        (2)
                        to actively oppose recognition or normalization of relations by other governments with any government of Syria that is led by Bashar Al-Assad.
                     
                  
                  
                     (b)
                     Prohibition
                     In accordance with subsection (a), no Federal official or employee may take any action, and no Federal funds may be made available, to recognize or otherwise imply, in any manner, United States recognition of Bashar al-Assad or any government in Syria that is led by Bashar al-Assad.
                  
               
               
                  1227.
                  APPROPRIATE CONGRESSIONAL COMMITTEES DEFINED
                  In this subtitle, the term appropriate congressional committees means—
                  
                     (1)
                     the Committee on Armed Services and the Committee on Foreign Affairs of the House of Representatives; and
                  
                  
                     (2)
                     the Committee on Armed Services and the Committee on Foreign Relations of the Senate.
                  
               
            
            
               D
               Other matters
               
                  1231.
                  PROHIBITION ON NEW START TREATY INFORMATION SHARING
                  
                     (a)
                     Prohibition
                     None of the funds authorized to be appropriated by this Act or otherwise made available for fiscal year 2025 for the Department of Defense may be used to provide the Russian Federation with notifications, biannual data exchange, inspection activities, or telemetric activities as required by the New START Treaty.
                  
                  
                     (b)
                     Waiver
                     The Secretary of Defense, with concurrence from the Secretary of State, may waive the prohibition in subsection (a) on a case-by-case basis if the Secretary of Defense certifies to the appropriate congressional committees in writing, that—
                     
                        (1)
                        it is in the national security interest of the United States to unilaterally provide notifications, biannual data exchange, inspection activities, or telemetric information to the Russian Federation; or
                     
                     
                        (2)
                        the Russian Federation is providing similar information to the United States as required by the New START Treaty.
                     
                  
                  
                     (c)
                     Definitions
                     In this section—
                     
                        (1)
                        the term appropriate congressional committees means—
                        
                           (A)
                           the Committee on Armed Services and the Committee on Foreign Affairs of the House of Representatives; and
                        
                        
                           (B)
                           the Committee on Armed Services and the Committee on Foreign Relations of the Senate; and
                        
                     
                     
                        (2)
                        the term New START Treaty means the Treaty between the United States of America and the Russian Federation on Measures for the Further Reduction and Limitation of Strategic Offensive Arms, signed at Prague April 8, 2010, and entered into force February 5, 2011.
                     
                  
               
               
                  1232.
                  ENSURING ISRAEL’S DEFENSE
                  
                     (a)
                     Statement of policy
                     It is the policy of the United States to work with Israel to ensure adequate stocks of components and munitions to defend Israel against threats from Iran and Iranian military proxies, such as Hamas, Hezbollah, and the Palestinian Islamic Jihad.
                  
                  
                     (b)
                     Report
                     
                        (1)
                        In general
                        The Secretary of Defense, in consultation with the Secretary of State, shall, on a biannual basis, submit to the appropriate committees a report on the extent to which Israel is subject to aerial attacks described in paragraph (2) and that contains the matters described in paragraph (3). 
                     
                     
                        (2)
                        Aerial attack described
                        An aerial attack described in this paragraph is an aerial attack, including a rocket or missile attack, that Israel counters by deploying or utilizing—
                        
                           (A)
                           not less than 50 interceptors under its Iron Dome defense system;
                        
                        
                           (B)
                           its David’s Sling defense system; or
                        
                        
                           (C)
                           its Arrow defense system.
                        
                     
                     
                        (3)
                        Matters to be included
                        The report required by paragraph (1) shall include a description of the following:
                        
                           (A)
                           An identification of—
                           
                              (i)
                              any components or munitions required for the replenishment of the defense systems described in subparagraph (A), (B), or (C) of paragraph (2) deployed or utilized to counter the attack; 
                           
                           
                              (ii)
                              any requests made by the Government of Israel to the Government of the United States for any such replenishment; 
                           
                           
                              (iii)
                              the funding requirements for any such replenishment; 
                           
                           
                              (iv)
                              the Government of the United States’ adjudication of any such requests from the Government of Israel; and
                           
                           
                              (v)
                              the time frame under which the United States can resupply the Israeli Defense Forces with such defense systems and the surge capacity after an incident.
                           
                        
                        
                           (B)
                           A description of any other funding requirements to support Israeli military operations in defense against Iran or any Iranian military proxies, including Hamas, Hezbollah, or the Palestinian Islamic Jihad.
                        
                        
                           (C)
                           A description of—
                           
                              (i)
                              the current levels of stocks of components and munitions that would be used for any such replenishment;
                           
                           
                              (ii)
                              the projected needs, including to address emergent requirements, with estimated costs and sources of such replenishment; and 
                           
                           
                              (iii)
                              the number of deployments of the defense system described in subparagraph (A), (B), or (C) of paragraph (2) and expenditures of interceptors under the Iron Dome defense system within the reporting period.
                           
                        
                     
                     
                        (4)
                        Consultation
                        The Secretary of Defense, in consultation with the Secretary of State, shall seek to consult with the Secretary of Defense and Secretary of State’s counterpart in the Government of Israel in preparing the report required by paragraph (1).
                     
                     
                        (5)
                        Form
                        The report required by paragraph (1) shall be submitted in unclassified form, but may contain a classified annex.
                     
                  
                  
                     (c)
                     Definition of appropriate committees
                     In this section, the term appropriate committees means—
                     
                        (1)
                        the Committee on Armed Services and the Committee on Foreign Affairs of the House of Representatives; and
                     
                     
                        (2)
                        the Committee on Armed Services and the Committee on Foreign Relations of the Senate.
                     
                  
               
               
                  1233.
                  REQUIREMENT TO CONDUCT SUBTERRANEAN WARFARE MILITARY EXERCISES
                  
                     (a)
                     Exercises required
                     Beginning on January 1 of the year that begins after the date of the enactment of this Act, the Secretary of Defense shall require the United States Central Command or other relevant commands, units, or organizations of the United States military services, as the Secretary determines appropriate, to conduct military exercises that—
                     
                        (1)
                        occur not fewer than once in a calendar year;
                     
                     
                        (2)
                        shall include invitations for the armed forces of Israel, provided that the Government of Israel consents to the participation of its forces in such exercises;
                     
                     
                        (3)
                        may include invitations for the armed forces of other allies and partners of the United States to take part in the exercises;
                     
                     
                        (4)
                        seek to enhance the interoperability and effectiveness of the United States military services, the armed forces of Israel, and the armed forces of other allies and partners of the United States in coalition operations; and
                     
                     
                        (5)
                        shall include, if available resources permit, the following activities—
                        
                           (A)
                           practicing or simulating locating subterranean tunnel entrances and exits;
                        
                        
                           (B)
                           practicing infiltrating and mapping subterranean tunnels;
                        
                        
                           (C)
                           practicing maneuvering within subterranean tunnels of varying sizes; and
                        
                        
                           (D)
                           practicing neutralizing or demolishing subterranean tunnels.
                        
                     
                  
                  
                     (b)
                     Sunset
                     The requirements in subsection (a) shall terminate on December 31 of the year described in subsection (a).
                  
               
               
                  1234.
                  UNITED STATES-ISRAEL PTSD COLLABORATIVE RESEARCH
                  
                     (a)
                     Grant program for increased cooperation on post-traumatic stress disorder research between United States and Israel
                     
                        (1)
                        Sense of Congress
                        It is the sense of Congress that the Secretary of Defense, acting through the Psychological Health and Traumatic Brain Injury Research Program, should seek to explore scientific collaboration between American academic institutions and nonprofit research entities, and Israeli institutions with expertise in researching, diagnosing, and treating post-traumatic stress disorder.
                     
                     
                        (2)
                        Grant program
                        The Secretary of Defense, in coordination with the Secretary of Veterans Affairs and the Secretary of State, shall award grants to eligible entities to carry out collaborative research between the United States and Israel with respect to post-traumatic stress disorders. The Secretary of Defense shall carry out the grant program under this subsection in accordance with the agreement titled Agreement Between the Government of the United States of America and the Government of Israel on the United States-Israel Binational Science Foundation, dated September 27, 1972.
                     
                     
                        (3)
                        Eligible entities
                        To be eligible to receive a grant under this subsection, an entity shall be an academic institution or a nonprofit entity located in the United States.
                     
                     
                        (4)
                        Award
                        The Secretary shall award grants under this subsection to eligible entities that—
                        
                           (A)
                           carry out a research project that—
                           
                              (i)
                              addresses a requirement in the area of post-traumatic stress disorders that the Secretary determines appropriate to research using such grant; and
                           
                           
                              (ii)
                              is conducted by the eligible entity and an entity in Israel under a joint research agreement; and
                           
                        
                        
                           (B)
                           meet such other criteria that the Secretary may establish.
                        
                     
                     
                        (5)
                        Application
                        To be eligible to receive a grant under this subsection, an eligible entity shall submit an application to the Secretary at such time, in such manner, and containing such commitments and information as the Secretary may require.
                     
                     
                        (6)
                        Gift authority
                        The Secretary may accept, hold, and administer, any gift of money made on the condition that the gift be used for the purpose of the grant program under this subsection. Such gifts of money accepted under this paragraph shall be deposited in the Treasury in the Department of Defense General Gift Fund and shall be available, subject to appropriation, without fiscal year limitation.
                     
                     
                        (7)
                        Reports
                        Not later than 180 days after the date on which an eligible entity completes a research project using a grant under this subsection, the Secretary shall submit to Congress a report that contains—
                        
                           (A)
                           a description of how the eligible entity used the grant; and
                        
                        
                           (B)
                           an evaluation of the level of success of the research project.
                        
                     
                  
                  
                     (b)
                     Termination
                     The authority to award grants under subsection (a) shall terminate on the date that is 7 years after the date on which the first such grant is awarded.
                  
               
               
                  1235.
                  UNITED STATES AND ISRAEL TRAUMA AND AMPUTEE REHABILITATION EDUCATION AND TRAINING PROGRAM WITH THE MEDICAL CORPS OF THE ISRAEL DEFENSE FORCES
                  
                     (a)
                     In general
                     The Secretary of Defense shall establish an education and training program to be known as the United States and Israel Trauma and Amputee Rehabilitation Education and Training Program with appropriate personnel of the Medical Corps of the Israel Defense Forces.
                  
                  
                     (b)
                     Education and training activities
                     The United States and Israel Trauma and Amputee Rehabilitation Education and Training Program shall include the following activities:
                     
                        (1)
                        Dialogue between personnel of the military health system and the Medical Corps of the Israel Defense Forces on best practices for general trauma care, with a focus on amputation and amputee care, including the following elements of amputee care:
                        
                           (A)
                           Use of prosthetics.
                        
                        
                           (B)
                           Wound care.
                        
                        
                           (C)
                           Rehabilitative therapy.
                        
                        
                           (D)
                           Family counseling.
                        
                        
                           (E)
                           Mental health therapy.
                        
                     
                     
                        (2)
                        Training activities for personnel of the military health system and the Medical Corps of the Israel Defense Forces on trauma care, to include amputation and amputee care, including with a focus on surgical techniques for amputation and on providing post-amputation care. 
                     
                     
                        (3)
                        Opportunities for personnel of the Medical Corps of the Israel Defense Forces to—
                        
                           (A)
                           attend classes offered by personnel of the Center for the Intrepid of the Brooke Army Medical Center or any other military health system facility on best practices for trauma and amputee rehabilitation; and
                        
                        
                           (B)
                           observe amputee rehabilitation treatment methods administered by personnel of the Center for the Intrepid of the Brooke Army Medical Center or any other military health system facility.
                        
                     
                     
                        (4)
                        Any other educational activities that the Director, in coordination with appropriate officials from the Israel Defense Forces, determines relevant.
                     
                  
               
               
                  1236.
                  SENSE OF CONGRESS ON THE IMPORTANCE OF THE IRON DOME SYSTEM
                  Congress supports the mission of the Department of Defense in helping Israel fend of attacks from Hamas by supporting the Iron Dome system.
               
               
                  1237.
                  AUTHORITY TO BUILD CAPACITY OF FOREIGN SECURITY FORCES
                  Section 333(a) of title 10, United States Code, is amended by adding at the end the following new paragraph:
                  
                     
                        (10)
                        Counter-illegal, unreported, and unregulated fishing operations.
                     
                     .
                  
               
               
                  1238.
                  REPORT ON TRAINING OF UKRAINIAN ARMED FORCES
                  Not later than 180 days after the date of the enactment of this Act, the Secretary of Defense shall submit to the congressional defense committees an unclassified report on the presence of members of the Ukrainian armed forces within the geographic boundaries of the United States during and after fiscal year 2022. Such report shall also include the following information:
                  
                     (1)
                     The total number of Ukrainian service members trained, including pilots, disaggregated by fiscal year.
                  
                  
                     (2)
                     The total number of funds expended to furnish goods and services to Ukrainian service members, disaggregated by fiscal year.
                  
                  
                     (3)
                     The specific goods and services provided to Ukrainian service members by the Department of Defense while in the United States.
                  
                  
                     (4)
                     The outcomes and any evaluation records of Ukrainian service members who completed such training.
                  
               
               
                  1239.
                  SENSE OF CONGRESS ON DEFENSE BY NATO MEMBER STATES
                  It is the sense of Congress that each North Atlantic Treaty Organization (NATO) member state should commit to providing, at a minimum, 2 percent of its Gross Domestic Product (GDP) to defense to continue to ensure NATO’s military readiness. 
               
               
                  1240.
                  REPORT ON WAR IN UKRAINE
                  Not later than 180 days after the date of the enactment of this Act, the Secretary of Defense shall submit to Congress a report on the ongoing conflict in Ukraine that includes information on causalities, wounded, and materials or equipment losses for both sides of the conflict.
               
               
                  1241.
                  INCLUSION OF SPECIAL OPERATIONS FORCES IN PLANNING AND STRATEGY RELATING TO THE ARCTIC REGION
                  
                     (a)
                     Strategy
                     
                        (1)
                        Requirement
                        Not later than one year after the date of the enactment of this Act, the Commander of the United States Special Operations Command, in consultation with the Secretary of Defense and the Commander of the United States Northern Command, shall develop and submit to the Committees on Armed Services of the House of Representatives and the Senate a Special Operations Forces Arctic Security Strategy, applicable across each component of the special operations forces and within each Armed Force (in this section referred to as the strategy).
                     
                     
                        (2)
                        Requirements
                        The strategy shall—
                        
                           (A)
                           build upon the findings of the report under section 1090(a)(3) of the National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2022 (Public Law 117–81; 10 U.S.C. 113 note) and the 2022 National Defense Strategy;
                        
                        
                           (B)
                           facilitate a consistent understanding of Arctic security priorities across the Department of Defense and a common understanding of the use and purpose of special operations forces for Arctic activities across the Armed Forces, combatant commands, and other relevant elements of the Department of Defense; and
                        
                        
                           (C)
                           promote greater use and prioritization of special operations forces capabilities, particularly with respect to the special operations force of the Army, in Arctic security planning and coordination with Indigenous populations and High North allies and partners.
                        
                     
                  
                  
                     (b)
                     Elements
                     The strategy shall include the following:
                     
                        (1)
                        A plan for the leveraging of North American Indigenous Arctic populations, and the establishment of working definitions and parameters for cooperation with such populations in the following areas:
                        
                           (A)
                           Intelligence, surveillance, and reconnaissance gathering.
                        
                        
                           (B)
                           Improved Arctic training and operation tactics, techniques, and procedures.
                        
                        
                           (C)
                           Empowering local populations to create solutions to regional issues.
                        
                        
                           (D)
                           Building resilience against invasion and occupation and enhancing deterrence capabilities.
                        
                        
                           (E)
                           Improving the capacity of allies and partners to build capabilities in the region that produce advantages against adversaries.
                        
                        
                           (F)
                           Building United States credibility for combat operations in the region.
                        
                        
                           (G)
                           Demonstrating United States commitment to improving living standards in the region.
                        
                        
                           (H)
                           Any other area the of the Commander of the United States Special Operations Command determines appropriate.
                        
                     
                     
                        (2)
                        A requirement that special operations forces achieve readiness with respect to not more than two Arctic environments.
                     
                     
                        (3)
                        With respect to terminology and working definitions of the Department—
                        
                           (A)
                           a requirement that—
                           
                              (i)
                              the use of the terms Arctic-capable and Arctic-ready may no longer be used in any document or other material produced by the Department of Defense that outlines Arctic strategies;
                           
                           
                              (ii)
                              the replacement terms Arctic-trained and Arctic-proficient shall be used in lieu of Arctic-capable and Arctic-ready, respectively; and
                           
                           
                              (iii)
                              the Department shall provide clear definitions and readiness requirements for each replacement term under clause (ii).
                           
                        
                        
                           (B)
                           a review of terminology, and the use of such terminology, relating to military doctrinal readiness (such as the terms trained and proficient) in the Arctic context, to ensure that the Armed Forces meet operational expectations and may fully partake in joint-training exercises with allies and partners of the United States.
                        
                     
                     
                        (4)
                        A description of the conditions necessary to establish a standardized pathway for self-validation for each Armed Force that requires units to be Arctic capable, with such standardized pathway being tailored to each Armed Force but consistent with respect to shared terminology, an agreed upon list of Arctic environments, and agreed upon standards to become Arctic capable in each such environment.
                     
                     
                        (5)
                        A requirement that the Commander of the United States Special Operations Command, in consultation with the Secretary of Defense and the Commander of the United States Northern Command, include in any future years plan for the Arctic Security Initiative required under section 1090(b)(2)(B) of the National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2022 (Public Law 117–81; 10 U.S.C. 113 note) the following:
                        
                           (A)
                           Updates on ongoing priorities for Arctic objectives of the special operations forces.
                        
                        
                           (B)
                           Assessments of the integration of Arctic operations of the special operations forces, including the use of Indigenous approaches to domain awareness.
                        
                        
                           (C)
                           A description of the activities and resources needed for the special operations forces to obtain readiness in the Arctic region, including manning, training, equipping, and funding requirements.
                        
                        
                           (D)
                           Any other matter the Commander of the United States Northern Command and the Secretary of Defense jointly determine appropriate.
                        
                     
                     
                        (6)
                        A requirement that, on an annual basis, the Commander of the United States Special Operations Command submit to the Committees on Armed Services of the House of Representatives and the Senate a progress report (in unclassified form, but with the option of including a classified annex) on the implementation and use of the strategy, including—
                        
                           (A)
                           an assessment of the ability of the strategy to address new and ongoing concerns;
                        
                        
                           (B)
                           areas relating to the strategy in need of improvement, including any new funding necessary;
                        
                        
                           (C)
                           use of the strategy across each Armed Force; and
                        
                        
                           (D)
                           an updated threat assessment with respect to the Arctic region.
                        
                     
                  
                  
                     (c)
                     Definitions
                     In this section, the term special operations forces means forces described under section 167(j) of title 10, United States Code. 
                  
               
               
                  1242.
                  REPORT ON ALLIED CONTRIBUTIONS TO THE COMMON DEFENSE
                  
                     (a)
                     Sense of congress
                     It is the sense of Congress that—
                     
                        (1)
                        section 1003 of the Department of Defense Authorization Act, 1985 (Public Law 98–525; 63 Stat. 2241)—
                        
                           (A)
                           expresses that due to threats that are ever-changing, Congress must be informed with respect to allied contributions to the common defense to properly assess the readiness of the United States and the countries described in subsection (b)(2) for threats; and
                        
                        
                           (B)
                           requires that the Secretary of Defense to submit to Congress an annual report on the contributions of allies to the common defense;
                        
                     
                     
                        (2)
                        the threats facing the United States—
                        
                           (A)
                           extend beyond the global war on terror; and
                        
                        
                           (B)
                           include near-peer threats; and
                        
                     
                     
                        (3)
                        the President should seek from each country described in subsection (b)(2) acceptance of international security responsibilities and agreements to make contributions to the common defense in accordance with the collective defense agreements or treaties to which such country is a party.
                     
                  
                  
                     (b)
                     Reports on allied contributions to the common defense
                     
                        (1)
                        In general
                        Not later than March 1 of each year, the Secretary of Defense, in coordination with the heads of other Federal agencies, as the Secretary determines to be necessary, shall submit to the appropriate committees of Congress a report containing a description of—
                        
                           (A)
                           the annual defense spending by each country described in paragraph (2), including available data on nominal budget figures and defense spending as a percentage of the gross domestic products of each such country for the fiscal year immediately preceding the fiscal year in which the report is submitted;
                        
                        
                           (B)
                           the activities of each such country to contribute to military or stability operations in which the Armed Forces of the United States are a participant or may be called upon in accordance with a cooperative defense agreement to which the United States is a party;
                        
                        
                           (C)
                           any limitations placed by any such country on the use of such contributions; and
                        
                        
                           (D)
                           any actions undertaken by the United States or by other countries to minimize such limitations.
                        
                     
                     
                        (2)
                        Countries described
                        The countries described in this paragraph are the following:
                        
                           (A)
                           Each member country of the North Atlantic Treaty Organization.
                        
                        
                           (B)
                           Each member country of the Gulf Cooperation Council.
                        
                        
                           (C)
                           Each country party to the Inter-American Treaty of Reciprocal Assistance (Rio Treaty), done at Rio de Janeiro September 2, 1947, and entered into force December 3, 1948 (TIAS 1838).
                        
                        
                           (D)
                           Australia.
                        
                        
                           (E)
                           Japan.
                        
                        
                           (F)
                           New Zealand.
                        
                        
                           (G)
                           The Philippines.
                        
                        
                           (H)
                           South Korea.
                        
                        
                           (I)
                           Thailand.
                        
                     
                     
                        (3)
                        Form
                        Each report under paragraph (1) shall be submitted in unclassified form, but may contain a classified annex.
                     
                     
                        (4)
                        Availability
                        A report submitted under paragraph (1) shall be made available on request to any Member of Congress.
                     
                  
                  
                     (c)
                     Appropriate committees of congress defined
                     In this section, the term appropriate committees of Congress means—
                     
                        (1)
                        the Committee on Armed Services, the Committee on Foreign Relations, and the Committee on Appropriations of the Senate; and
                     
                     
                        (2)
                        the Committee on Armed Services, the Committee on Foreign Affairs, and the Committee on Appropriations of the House of Representatives.
                     
                  
               
               
                  1243.
                  INCLUSION OF INFORMATION ON RELATIONSHIP BETWEEN CHINA AND IRAN IN CERTAIN DEPARTMENT OF DEFENSE ANNUAL REPORT
                  Section 1202(b) of the National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2000 (Public Law 106–65; 10 U.S.C. 113 note) is amended by adding at the end the following new paragraph:
                  
                     
                        (9)
                        Information on the burgeoning relationship between the People’s Republic of China and the Islamic Republic of Iran.
                     
                     .
                  
               
               
                  1244.
                  SENSE OF CONGRESS ON INTERNATIONAL DEFENSE EXHIBITIONS
                  It is the sense of Congress that the Department of Defense and its agencies should not participate in the Eurosatory Exhibition in any way until the Secretary of Defense certifies to Congress that France and the Commissariat Général des Expositions et Salons du GICAT (COGES) allow Israeli companies to fully participate in the Exhibition and are not using restrictions or the threat of restrictions on any party’s participation in the Exhibition as a means of deterring Israel from defending itself.
               
               
                  1245.
                  REPORT AND STRATEGY FOR UNITED STATES INVOLVEMENT IN UKRAINE
                  
                     (a)
                     In general
                     Not later than 30 days after the date of the enactment of this Act, the President, in coordination with the Secretary of Defense and the Secretary of State, shall develop and submit to the appropriate congressional committees a report that contains a strategy for United States involvement in Ukraine. 
                  
                  
                     (b)
                     Elements
                     The report required by subsection (a) shall—
                     
                        (1)
                        define the United States national interests at stake with respect to the conflict between the Russian Federation and Ukraine; 
                     
                     
                        (2)
                        identify specific objectives the President believes must be achieved in Ukraine in order to protect the United States national interests defined in paragraph (1), and for each objective—
                        
                           (A)
                           an estimate of the amount of time required to achieve the objective, with an explanation; 
                        
                        
                           (B)
                           benchmarks to be used by the President to determine whether an objective has been met, is in the progress of being met, or cannot be met in the time estimated to be required in subparagraph (A); and 
                        
                        
                           (C)
                           estimates of the amount of resources, including United States personnel, materiel, and funding, required to achieve the objective; and 
                        
                     
                     
                        (3)
                        list the expected contribution for security assistance made by European member countries of the North Atlantic Treaty Organization within the next fiscal year.
                     
                  
                  
                     (c)
                     Form
                     The report required by subsection (a) shall be submitted in unclassified form, but may include a classified annex. 
                  
                  
                     (d)
                     Briefing
                     Not later than 45 days after the date of the submission of the report required by subsection (a), the Secretary of Defense and the Secretary of State shall provide to the appropriate congressional committees, and other Members of Congress that wish to participate, a briefing on the United States strategy with respect to Ukraine and plans for the implementation of such strategy.
                  
                  
                     (e)
                     Limitation on funds
                     None of the amounts authorized to be appropriated or otherwise made available by this Act, the National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2024, or the Ukraine Security Supplemental Appropriations Act, 2024 (division B of Public Law 118–50) may be made available for Ukraine until the report required by subsection (a) is submitted to the appropriate congressional committees and the briefing required by subsection (d) is held. 
                  
                  
                     (f)
                     Appropriate congressional committees defined
                     In this section, the term ‘‘appropriate congressional committees’’ means—
                     
                        (1)
                        the congressional defense committees; and
                     
                     
                        (2)
                        the Committee on Foreign Affairs of the House of Representatives and the Committee on Foreign Relations of the Senate.
                     
                  
               
               
                  1246.
                  REPORT ON MULTILATERAL EXERCISES IN THE EASTERN MEDITERRANEAN
                  
                     (a)
                     Report
                     
                        (1)
                        In general
                        Not later than 180 days after the date of the enactment of this Act, the Secretary of Defense shall submit to the congressional defense committees a report on multilateral exercises in the eastern Mediterranean.
                     
                     
                        (2)
                        Elements
                        The report required under paragraph (1) shall contain the following elements:
                        
                           (A)
                           An assessment of the effectiveness of multilateral military exercises hosted by United State allies and partners in the eastern Mediterranean in bolstering maritime energy security and counterterrorism in the region.
                        
                        
                           (B)
                           Individual assessments of the potential benefits of including the following countries in future exercises and their readiness to participate based on interoperability:
                           
                              (i)
                              Bahrain.
                           
                           
                              (ii)
                              Egypt.
                           
                           
                              (iii)
                              Jordan.
                           
                           
                              (iv)
                              United Arab Emirates
                           
                           
                              (v)
                              Saudi Arabia
                           
                        
                     
                  
                  
                     (b)
                     Form
                     The report required under paragraph (1) shall be transmitted in an unclassified form and may contain a classified annex.
                  
               
               
                  1247.
                  REPORT ON CERTAIN ASSISTANCE TO UKRAINE
                  
                     (a)
                     In general
                     Not later than 180 days after the date of the enactment of this Act, the Inspector General of the Department of Defense shall submit to Congress a report reconciling all United States assistance to Ukraine, including all normal and supplemental Ukraine appropriations and drawdowns, from January 1, 2022, through the date of such submission. The report shall specifically detail the countries, entities, and individuals who received such assistance.
                  
                  
                     (b)
                     Additional elements
                     The report required under subsection (a) shall also detail the following:
                     
                        (1)
                        All contracts awarded to third parties with enumerated amounts, including an identification of each such third party recipient and a specification of the amount awarded to each such third party.
                     
                     
                        (2)
                        The total of appropriated or authorized amounts that have been obligated or expended, as well as the total amounts of authorized or appropriated funds that have not been so obligated or expended.
                     
                  
                  
                     (c)
                     Form
                     The report required under subsection (a) shall be submitted in unclassified form but may contain a classified annex.
                  
               
               
                  1248.
                  MILITARY COOPERATION WITH MOROCCO
                  
                     (a)
                     Findings
                     Congress finds the following:
                     
                        (1)
                        The United States recognizes the 20th anniversary of the African Lion exercise hosted by Morocco, a key United States ally in Africa and the Middle East.
                     
                     
                        (2)
                        The African Lion exercise is United States Africa Command’s largest annual combined joint exercise.
                     
                     
                        (3)
                        African Lion builds and maintains interoperability with our African and North Atlantic Treaty Organization partners and improves our ability to meet security related challenges together to address the growing threats from nation states, private military corporations, militias, non-state armed groups and violent extremist organizations, given the increasing presence of malign actors in Africa, including the Iranian regime and its proxies, particularly in North Africa and the Sahel.
                     
                  
                  
                     (b)
                     Statement of policy
                     It is the policy of the United States to—
                     
                        (1)
                        support strengthening security cooperation with Morocco given increasing instability in Africa and the Middle East and provide for close cooperation between the United States and Morocco in order to contribute to the region’s broader security; and
                     
                     
                        (2)
                        provide for the continuation of the African Lion exercise in future years will support the crucial efforts to address security challenges facing NATO’s southern flank.
                     
                  
                  
                     (c)
                     Report
                     
                        (1)
                        In general
                        Not later than 180 days after the date of the enactment of this Act, the Secretary of Defense shall submit to the appropriate congressional committees a report detailing how the United States can improve its interoperability and cooperation with Morocco through the African Lion exercise to continue to address the growing threats in Africa, including the Iranian regime and its proxies, particularly in North Africa and the Sahel.
                     
                     
                        (2)
                        Definition
                        In this subsection, the term appropriate congressional committees means—
                        
                           (A)
                           the Committee on Armed Services and the Committee on Foreign Affairs of the House of Representatives; and
                        
                        
                           (B)
                           and the Committee on Armed Services and the Committee on Foreign Relations of the Senate.
                        
                     
                  
               
               
                  1249.
                  STRATEGIC PARTNERSHIP ON DEFENSE INDUSTRIAL PRIORITIES BETWEEN THE UNITED STATES AND ISRAEL
                  The Secretary of Defense shall seek to establish a partnership between the Defense Innovation Unit of the Department of Defense and appropriate counterparts of Israel in order to—
                  
                     (1)
                     enhance market opportunities for United States-based and Israeli-based defense technology companies;
                  
                  
                     (2)
                     bolster Israel’s defense industrial base;
                  
                  
                     (3)
                     harmonize global security posture through emerging technology;
                  
                  
                     (4)
                     counter Iran and Iran-aligned adversarial proxy group development of dual-use defense technologies; and
                  
                  
                     (5)
                     in coordination with appropriate counterpart offices of the Israeli ministry of defense—
                     
                        (A)
                        enable coordination on defense industrial priorities;
                     
                     
                        (B)
                        streamline emerging defense technology research and development;
                     
                     
                        (C)
                        create more pathways to market for defense technology startups; and
                     
                     
                        (D)
                        collaborate on the development of dual-use defense capabilities through coordination.
                     
                  
               
               
                  1250.
                  REPORT ON MILITARY ACTIVITIES OF THE RUSSIAN FEDERATION AND THE PEOPLE’S REPUBLIC OF CHINA IN THE ARCTIC REGION
                  
                     (a)
                     In general
                     Not later than 180 days after the date of the enactment of this Act, the Secretary of Defense, in consultation with the Secretary of State and the Director of National Intelligence, shall submit to the appropriate congressional committees a report on the following:
                     
                        (1)
                        Any military activities of the Russian Federation in the Arctic region.
                     
                     
                        (2)
                        Any military activities of the People’s Republic of China in the Arctic region.
                     
                  
                  
                     (b)
                     Matters to be included
                     The report under subsection (a) shall include, with respect to the Russian Federation or the People’s Republic of China, as applicable, the following:
                     
                        (1)
                        A description of military activities of such country in the Arctic region, including—
                        
                           (A)
                           the placement of military infrastructure, equipment, or forces;
                        
                        
                           (B)
                           any exercises or other military activities; and
                        
                        
                           (C)
                           activities that are ostensibly non-military in nature but are considered to have military or other strategic implications.
                        
                     
                     
                        (2)
                        An assessment of—
                        
                           (A)
                           the intentions of such activities by each such country;
                        
                        
                           (B)
                           the extent to which such activities affect or threaten the interests of the United States and allies in the Arctic region; and
                        
                        
                           (C)
                           any response to such activities by the United States or allies.
                        
                     
                     
                        (3)
                        A description of future plans and requirements with respect to such activities.
                     
                     
                        (4)
                        A detailed description of the Russian Federation and the People’s Republic of China’s cooperation in the Arctic region.
                     
                     
                        (5)
                        A description of how the Russian Federation’s full-scale invasion of Ukraine on February 24, 2022, and the resulting damage to its military forces have impacted the Russian Federation’s posture, activities, and policy in the Arctic region.
                     
                     
                        (6)
                        A description of how the Russian Federation’s full-scale invasion of Ukraine on February 24, 2022, has impacted the People’s Republic of China’s posture, activity and policy in the Arctic region.
                     
                     
                        (7)
                        A description of how the United States and its allies in the Arctic region have adjusted their posture in response to any recent changes by the Russian Federation or the People’s Republic of China.
                     
                     
                        (8)
                        A description of the activities of the Arctic Council and other Arctic fora of which the United States is a member over the preceding 3-year period, including—
                        
                           (A)
                           a description of how the U.S. Ambassador-at-large for the Arctic region would engage with the Arctic Council and other established Arctic fora;
                        
                        
                           (B)
                           a description of the United States current role in the Arctic Council and what steps are being taken to ensure that the involvement of the Russian Federation does not detract from continued engagement with regional partners;
                        
                        
                           (C)
                           a detailing of all meetings, round tables, working groups, and other official activities of the Arctic Council and other Arctic fora, including a description of which such events in which the Russian Federation did and did not participate; and
                        
                        
                           (D)
                           a description of how the United States is utilizing current Arctic fora to develop and implement regional security strategies.
                        
                     
                  
                  
                     (c)
                     Form
                     Each report under subsection (a) shall be submitted in unclassified form but may include a classified annex.
                  
                  
                     (d)
                     Appropriate congressional committees defined
                     In this section, the term appropriate congressional committees means—
                     
                        (1)
                        the Committee on Armed Services, the Committee on Foreign Affairs, the Committee on Appropriations, and the Permanent Select Committee on Intelligence of the House of Representatives; and
                     
                     
                        (2)
                        the Committee on Armed Services, the Committee on Foreign Relations, the Committee on Appropriations, and the Select Committee on Intelligence of the Senate.
                     
                  
                  
                     (e)
                     Arctic region defined
                     In this section, the term Arctic region has the meaning given the term Arctic in the Arctic Research and Policy Act (ARPA) of 1984 (Public Law 98–373).
                  
               
               
                  1251.
                  REPORT ON COOPERATIVE EFFORTS TO STOP UNMANNED AERIAL SYSTEMS
                  
                     (a)
                     In general
                     The Secretary of Defense shall submit to the appropriate congressional committees a report on the status of cooperation between the United States and Israel on efforts to counter threats by Iran in the form of unmanned aerial systems, including loitering munitions otherwise known as suicide or kamikaze drones.
                  
                  
                     (b)
                     Appropriate congressional committees defined
                     In this section, the term appropriate congressional committees means—
                     
                        (1)
                        the congressional defense committees;
                     
                     
                        (2)
                        the Committee on Foreign Affairs of the House of Representatives; and
                     
                     
                        (3)
                        the Committee on Foreign Relations of the Senate.
                     
                  
               
            
         
         
            XIII
            OTHER MATTERS RELATING TO FOREIGN NATIONS
            
               A
               Matters related to the Indo-Pacific region
               
                  1301.
                  EXTENSION AND MODIFICATION OF PACIFIC DETERRENCE INITIATIVE
                  
                     (a)
                     In general
                     Subsection (c) of section 1251 of the William M. (Mac) Thornberry National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2021 (10 U.S.C. 113 note) is amended—
                     
                        (1)
                        by striking the National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2024 and inserting the National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2025; and
                     
                     
                        (2)
                        by striking fiscal year 2024 and inserting fiscal year 2025.
                     
                  
                  
                     (b)
                     Report
                     Subsection (d)(1) of such section is amended— 
                     
                        (1)
                        in subparagraph (A), by striking fiscal years 2025 and 2026 and inserting fiscal years 2026 and 2027; and
                     
                     
                        (2)
                        in subparagraph (B), by adding at the end the following: 
                        
                           
                              (viii)
                              An identification of performance goals and measures to advance the lines of effort of the Initiative relative to the operational requirements of the Initiative, determined in coordination with the Secretary of each military department.
                           
                           .
                        
                     
                  
                  
                     (c)
                     Plan required
                     Subsection (e) of such section is amended—
                     
                        (1)
                        by striking fiscal years 2025 and 2026 and inserting fiscal years 2026 and 2027; and
                     
                     
                        (2)
                        by striking paragraph (2) and inserting the following: 
                        
                           
                              (2)
                              A detailed description of the progress made toward achieving the performance goals and measures identified pursuant to subsection (d)(1)(B)(viii).
                           
                           .
                        
                     
                  
               
               
                  1302.
                  MODIFICATION OF PUBLIC REPORTING OF CHINESE MILITARY COMPANIES OPERATING IN THE UNITED STATES
                  Section 1260H(b) of the William M. (Mac) Thornberry National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2021 (10 U.S.C. 113 note) is amended—
                  
                     (1)
                     in paragraph (1), by inserting and a justification for the identification of each such entity, in classified or unclassified form, after , in classified and unclassified forms,; and
                  
                  
                     (2)
                     in paragraph (2), by inserting and justification after list each place it appears.
                  
               
               
                  1303.
                  MODIFICATIONS TO PUBLIC REPORTING OF CHINESE MILITARY COMPANIES OPERATING IN THE UNITED STATES
                  
                     (a)
                     Reporting and publication
                     Subsection (b)(3) of section 1260H of the William M (Mac) Thornberry National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2021 (10 U.S.C. 113 note) is amended by striking an ongoing basis and inserting at least an annual basis.
                  
                  
                     (b)
                     Additional matters
                     Such section is amended—
                     
                        (1)
                        by redesignating subsection (d) as subsection (e); and
                     
                     
                        (2)
                        by inserting after subsection (c) the following:
                        
                           
                              (d)
                              Report and other additional matters
                              
                                 (1)
                                 Report
                                 
                                    (A)
                                    In general
                                    Not later than December 31, 2026, and biennially thereafter until December 31, 2031, the Secretary of Defense shall submit to the appropriate congressional committees a report on the status of Department of Defense procurement restrictions on entities included in the list described in subsection (b)(1).
                                 
                                 
                                    (B)
                                    Matters to be included
                                    The report required by this paragraph shall include the following:
                                    
                                       (i)
                                       A list of entities included the list described in subsection (b)(1) likely present in the defense industrial base.
                                    
                                    
                                       (ii)
                                       Available unclassified data on the presence of entities included on the list described in subsection (b)(1) in the defense industrial base.
                                    
                                    
                                       (iii)
                                       Updates on policies and procedures implemented to enforce procurement restrictions on entities included the list described in subsection (b)(1).
                                    
                                 
                              
                              
                                 (2)
                                 Procedures for implementation
                                 The Secretary of Defense shall establish such reasonable procedures as are necessary to implement the provisions of this section, including for obtaining information from outside entities relevant to the list described in subsection (b)(1) and procedures for removal of entities from the list described in subsection (b)(1).
                              
                           
                           .
                        
                     
                  
                  
                     (c)
                     Definitions
                     Paragraph (1) of subsection (e) of such section (as so redesignated) is amended—
                     
                        (1)
                        in subparagraph (A), by striking and at the end; 
                     
                     
                        (2)
                        in subparagraph (B)—
                        
                           (A)
                           in clause (i)(I) to read as follows:
                           
                              
                                 (I)
                                 directly or indirectly owned, controlled, or beneficially owned by, or in an official or unofficial capacity acting as an agent of or on behalf of, the People’s Liberation Army, Chinese military and paramilitary elements, security forces, police, law enforcement, border control, the People’s Armed Police, the Ministry of State Security, or any other organization subordinate to the Central Military Commission of the Chinese Communist Party; or
                              
                              ; and
                           
                        
                        
                           (B)
                           in clause (ii), by striking the period at the end and inserting ; and; and
                        
                     
                     
                        (3)
                        by adding at the end the following:
                        
                           
                              (C)
                              includes wholly-owned or controlled subsidiaries and affiliates of an entity described in subparagraph (B). 
                           
                           .
                        
                     
                  
               
               
                  1304.
                  ESTABLISHMENT OF INDO-PACIFIC MEDICAL READINESS PROGRAM
                  
                     (a)
                     Establishment
                     
                        (1)
                        In general
                        Not later than January 1, 2026, the Secretary of Defense shall establish a medical readiness program (referred to in this section as the Program) to partner with countries in the Indo-Pacific region to gain access to foreign medical facilities during peacetime and wartime operations and maintain military-wide strategies for medical readiness in the region.
                     
                     
                        (2)
                        Organization
                        The Secretary of Defense, in consultation with the Secretary of State, the Secretaries of the military departments, the commanders of the combatant commands, and any other individual the Secretary of Defense considers appropriate, shall be responsible for and oversee the Program.
                     
                     
                        (3)
                        Objective
                        The objective of the Program shall be to promote the medical readiness of the Armed Forces and the military forces of partner countries for missions during peacetime and wartime operations by—
                        
                           (A)
                           reducing potential requirements for long distance medical evacuation to receive definitive patient care;
                        
                        
                           (B)
                           increasing the medical capacity of the Department of Defense by expanding patient access to medical facilities across the Indo-Pacific region where and when appropriate;
                        
                        
                           (C)
                           improving the standard of care through collaboration with foreign medical facilities to promote standardized medical procedures, patient care, and policies; and
                        
                        
                           (D)
                           enhancing interoperability and interchangeability where feasible through shared patient record management techniques, medical equipment commonality, and coordination of medical care.
                        
                     
                     
                        (4)
                        Activities
                        In carrying out the Program, the Secretary of Defense should seek to conduct the following activities—
                        
                           (A)
                           assess and integrate current Department of Defense medical capabilities and capacities in the Indo-Pacific region into the Program;
                        
                        
                           (B)
                           select an appropriate standard of accreditation to utilize when evaluating foreign medical facilities;
                        
                        
                           (C)
                           coordinate with partner countries to identify and evaluate medical facilities for the Program;
                        
                        
                           (D)
                           establish agreements with foreign medical facilities for potential use of the Program;
                        
                        
                           (E)
                           establish policies and procedures—
                           
                              (i)
                              to reduce patient movement times in various countries in the Indo-Pacific region during peacetime and wartime operations;
                           
                           
                              (ii)
                              to standardize medical procedures, patient care, and policies;
                           
                           
                              (iii)
                              to securely share patient data with foreign countries when appropriate to do so, such as during a contingency;
                           
                           
                              (iv)
                              with respect to medical equipment commonality and interchangeability; and
                           
                           
                              (v)
                              with respect to the coordination of medical care; and
                           
                        
                        
                           (F)
                           integrate the Program into operational plans of the combatant commands.
                        
                     
                  
                  
                     (b)
                     Strategy
                     
                        (1)
                        In general
                        Not later than September 30, 2025, the Secretary of Defense, in consultation with the Secretary of State, shall submit a strategy for the implementation of the Program to—
                        
                           (A)
                           the Committee on Armed Services and the Committee on Foreign Relations of the Senate; and
                        
                        
                           (B)
                           the Committee on Armed Services and the Committee on Foreign Affairs of the House of Representatives.
                        
                     
                     
                        (2)
                        Elements
                        The strategy required by paragraph (1) shall include the following:
                        
                           (A)
                           A governance structure for the Program, including—
                           
                              (i)
                              the officials tasked to oversee the Program;
                           
                           
                              (ii)
                              the format of the governing body of the Program;
                           
                           
                              (iii)
                              the functions and duties of such governing body with respect to establishing and maintaining the Program; and
                           
                           
                              (iv)
                              mechanisms for coordinating with partner countries selected to participate in the Program.
                           
                        
                        
                           (B)
                           With respect to the selection of partner countries initially selected to participate in the Program—
                           
                              (i)
                              an identification of each such country;
                           
                           
                              (ii)
                              the rationale for selecting each such country; and
                           
                           
                              (iii)
                              any other information the Secretary considers appropriate.
                           
                        
                        
                           (C)
                           A campaign of objectives for the first 3 fiscal years of the Program, including—
                           
                              (i)
                              a description of, and a rational for selecting, such objectives;
                           
                           
                              (ii)
                              an identification of milestones toward achieving such objectives; and
                           
                           
                              (iii)
                              metrics for evaluating success in achieving such objectives.
                           
                        
                        
                           (D)
                           A description of opportunities and potential timelines for future Program expansion, as appropriate.
                        
                        
                           (E)
                           A list of additional authorities, appropriations, or other congressional support necessary to ensure the success of the Program.
                        
                        
                           (F)
                           Any other information the Secretary considers appropriate.
                        
                     
                     
                        (3)
                        Form
                        The strategy required by paragraph (1) shall be submitted in unclassified form but may include a classified annex.
                     
                  
                  
                     (c)
                     Report
                     
                        (1)
                        In general
                        Not later than September 20, 2025, the Secretary of Defense, in consultation with the Secretary of State, shall submit a report on the Program to—
                        
                           (A)
                           the congressional defense committees;
                        
                        
                           (B)
                           the Committee of Foreign Relations of the Senate; and
                        
                        
                           (C)
                           the Committee on Foreign Affairs of the House of Representatives.
                        
                     
                     
                        (2)
                        Elements
                        Each report required by paragraph (1) shall include the following:
                        
                           (A)
                           A narrative summary of activities conducted as part of the Program during the preceding fiscal year.
                        
                        
                           (B)
                           Except in the case of the initial report, an assessment of progress toward the objectives established for the preceding fiscal year described in the preceding report under this subsection using the metrics established in such report.
                        
                        
                           (C)
                           A campaign of objectives for the 3 fiscal years following the date of submission of the report, including—
                           
                              (i)
                              a description of, and a rational for selecting, such objectives;
                           
                           
                              (ii)
                              an identification of milestones toward achieving such objectives; and
                           
                           
                              (iii)
                              metrics for evaluating success in achieving such objectives.
                           
                        
                        
                           (D)
                           A description of opportunities and potential timelines for future Program expansion, as appropriate.
                        
                        
                           (E)
                           Any other information the Under Secretary considers appropriate.
                        
                     
                     
                        (3)
                        Form
                        Each report required by paragraph (1) shall be submitted in unclassified form but may include a classified annex.
                     
                  
               
               
                  1305.
                  PROHIBITION ON USE OF FUNDS TO PROMOTE A one country, two systems SOLUTION FOR TAIWAN
                  None of the funds authorized to be appropriated by this Act or otherwise made available for the Department of Defense fiscal year 2025 may be used to promote a one country, two systems solution for Taiwan. 
               
               
                  1306.
                  MODIFICATION OF PROHIBITION ON PARTICIPATION OF THE PEOPLE’S REPUBLIC OF CHINA IN RIM OF THE PACIFIC (RIMPAC) NAVAL EXERCISES
                  Section 1259 of the John S. McCain National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2019 (10 U.S.C. 321 note) is amended by striking subsection (b).
               
               
                  1307.
                   LANGUAGE REQUIREMENTS FOR PUBLIC REPORTING OF CHINESE MILITARY COMPANIES OPERATING IN THE UNITED STATES
                  Section 1260H(b) of the William M. (Mac) Thornberry National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2021 (10 U.S.C. 113 note), as amended by section 1302, is further amended by adding at the end the following new paragraph:
                  
                     
                        (4)
                        Language requirement
                        The Secretary shall make the list required under paragraph (1) in English and in Mandarin Chinese. If the name of a Chinese military company included on the list is referred to by the Government of China in a language other than English or Mandarin Chinese, the Secretary shall also include on the list the name of that company in that language.
                     
                     .
                  
               
               
                  1308.
                  MODIFICATION OF PROHIBITION ON PARTICIPATION OF PEOPLE’S REPUBLIC OF CHINA IN RIM OF THE PACIFIC EXERCISES
                   Section 1259(a)(1) of the John S. McCain National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2019 (10 U.S.C. 321 note) is amended—
                  
                     (1)
                     in subparagraph (C), by striking and;
                  
                  
                     (2)
                     in subparagraph (D), by striking the period at the end and inserting ; and; and
                  
                  
                     (3)
                     by adding at the end the following:
                     
                        
                           (E)
                           held an internationally recognized free and fair presidential election.
                        
                        .
                     
                  
               
            
            
               B
               Matters relating to South and East Asia
               
                  1311.
                  SENSE OF CONGRESS ON SOUTH KOREA
                  It is the sense of Congress that the Secretary of Defense should reinforce the United States alliance with the Republic of Korea in support of the shared objective of a peaceful and stable Korean Peninsula, including by—
                  
                     (1)
                     maintaining the presence of approximately 28,500 members of the United States Armed Forces deployed to the country, enhancing mutual defense industrial base cooperation; and
                  
                  
                     (2)
                     affirming the United States commitment to extended deterrence using the full range of United States defense capabilities, consistent with the Mutual Defense Treaty Between the United States and the Republic of Korea, signed at Washington, October 1, 1953.
                  
               
               
                  1312.
                  SENSE OF CONGRESS ON TAIWAN DEFENSE RELATIONS
                  It is the sense of Congress that—
                  
                     (1)
                     the United States’ one China policy, as guided by the Taiwan Relations Act (Public Law 96–8; 22 U.S.C. 3301 et seq.), the Three Communiques between the United States and the People’s Republic of China, and the Six Assurances provided by the United States to Taiwan in July 1982, is the foundation for United States-Taiwan relations;
                  
                  
                     (2)
                     as set forth in the Taiwan Relations Act, the United States decision to establish diplomatic relations with the People’s Republic of China rests upon the expectation that the future of Taiwan will be determined by peaceful means, and that any effort to determine the future of Taiwan by other than peaceful means, including boycotts and embargoes, is of grave concern to the United States;
                  
                  
                     (3)
                     the increasingly coercive and aggressive behavior of the People’s Republic of China toward Taiwan is contrary to the expectation of the peaceful resolution of the future of Taiwan;
                  
                  
                     (4)
                     as set forth in the Taiwan Relations Act, the capacity to resist any resort to force or other forms of coercion that would jeopardize the security, or the social or economic system, of the people on Taiwan should be maintained;
                  
                  
                     (5)
                     the United States should continue to support the development of capable, ready, and modern defense forces necessary for Taiwan to maintain sufficient defensive capabilities, including by—
                     
                        (A)
                        supporting acquisition by Taiwan of defense articles and services through foreign military sales, direct commercial sales, and industrial cooperation, with an emphasis on capabilities that support an asymmetric strategy;
                     
                     
                        (B)
                        ensuring timely review of and response to requests of Taiwan for defense articles and services;
                     
                     
                        (C)
                        conducting practical training and military exercises with Taiwan that enable Taiwan to maintain sufficient defensive capabilities, as described in the Taiwan Relations Act;
                     
                     
                        (D)
                        exchanges between defense officials and officers of the United States and Taiwan at the strategic, policy, and functional levels, consistent with the Taiwan Travel Act (Public Law 115–135; 132 Stat. 341), especially for the purposes of—
                        
                           (i)
                           enhancing cooperation on defense planning;
                        
                        
                           (ii)
                           improving the interoperability of the military forces of the United States and Taiwan; and
                        
                        
                           (iii)
                           improving the reserve force of Taiwan;
                        
                     
                     
                        (E)
                        cooperating with Taiwan to improve its ability to employ military capabilities in asymmetric ways, as described in the Taiwan Relations Act; and
                     
                     
                        (F)
                        expanding cooperation in humanitarian assistance and disaster relief; and
                     
                  
                  
                     (6)
                     the United States should increase its support to a free and open society in the face of aggressive efforts by the Government of the People’s Republic of China to curtail or influence the free exercise of rights and democratic franchise.
                  
               
               
                  1313.
                  CONSIDERATION OF TAIWAN FOR ENHANCED DEFENSE INDUSTRIAL BASE COOPERATION
                  
                     (a)
                     Enhanced Defense Industrial Base Cooperation
                     
                        (1)
                        In general
                        Consistent with the Taiwan Relations Act (22 U.S.C. 3301 et seq.), the Secretary of Defense, in coordination with the Secretary of State and the head of any other relevant Federal department or agency, shall take measures to ensure that Taiwan is appropriately considered for enhanced defense industrial base cooperation activities aligned with the United States National Defense Industrial Strategy to expand global defense production, increase supply chain security and resilience, and meet the defense needs of Taiwan.
                     
                     
                        (2)
                        Elements
                        Consideration for enhanced defense industrial base cooperation activities under paragraph (1) shall include the consideration of Taiwan for the following:
                        
                           (A)
                           Eligibility for funding to initiate or facilitate cooperative research, development, testing, or evaluation projects with the Department of Defense.
                        
                        
                           (B)
                           Eligibility to enter into a memorandum of understanding or other formal agreement with the Department of Defense for the purpose of conducting cooperative research and development projects on defense equipment and munitions, with a focus on enhancing the defense industry and supply chain resilience of Taiwan.
                        
                     
                  
                  
                     (b)
                     Feasibility study
                     
                        (1)
                        In general
                        The Secretary of Defense, in coordination with the Secretary of State, the Government of Taiwan, and representatives of the United States defense industry, shall conduct a study on the feasibility and advisability of entering into one or more defense industrial agreements with Taiwan.
                     
                     
                        (2)
                        Elements
                        The study required by paragraph (1) shall—
                        
                           (A)
                           evaluate the strategic benefits and implications of entering into a defense industrial agreement with Taiwan, including with respect to—
                           
                              (i)
                              long-term supply chain security and resilience;
                           
                           
                              (ii)
                              mutual supply of defense goods and services;
                           
                           
                              (iii)
                              supply of regional maintenance, repair, and overhaul capabilities and any other support capability the Secretary of Defense considers appropriate; and
                           
                           
                              (iv)
                              the promotion of interoperability;
                           
                        
                        
                           (B)
                           account for the legal, economic, and defense policy aspects of a closer defense procurement partnership between the United States and Taiwan; and
                        
                        
                           (C)
                           include a list of not fewer than five defense capabilities—
                           
                              (i)
                              
                                 (I)
                                 developed by, and produced in, Taiwan; and
                              
                              
                                 (II)
                                 that require expedited licenses for components produced in the United States; or
                              
                           
                           
                              (ii)
                              developed by the United States but for which the United States defense industry cannot meet the demand of Taiwan on a timely basis so as to necessitate production in Taiwan.
                           
                        
                     
                     
                        (3)
                        Report
                        Not later than 180 days after the date of the enactment of this Act, the Secretary of Defense shall submit to the Committee on Armed Services of the House of Representatives and the Committee on Armed Services of the Senate a report on the results of the study conducted under paragraph (1).
                     
                  
               
               
                  1314.
                  MODIFICATION TO ANNUAL REPORT ON MILITARY AND SECURITY DEVELOPMENTS INVOLVING THE PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF CHINA
                  Section 1202(b) of the National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2000 (10 U.S.C. 113 note) is amended—
                  
                     (1)
                     by redesignating paragraph (5) as paragraph (6); and 
                  
                  
                     (2)
                     by inserting after paragraph (4) the following new paragraph (5):
                     
                        
                           (5)
                           The military and security developments concerning the Tibetan Plateau.
                        
                        .
                     
                  
               
               
                  1315.
                  DESIGNATION OF OFFICIAL RESPONSIBLE FOR COORDINATION OF DEPARTMENT OF DEFENSE EFFORTS TO MONITOR PEOPLE’S LIBERATION ARMY OVERSEAS BASING EFFORTS
                  
                     (a)
                     Designation
                     Not later than 90 days after the date of enactment of this Act, the Secretary of Defense shall designate an official to be responsible for, in coordination with appropriate officials within the Department of Defense—
                     
                        (1)
                        coordinating Department of Defense efforts to monitor the People’s Liberation Army’s network of overseas military bases and its global pursuit of military access agreements;
                     
                     
                        (2)
                        representing the Department of Defense in the interagency process on issues related to responsibilities described in paragraph (1); and
                     
                     
                        (3)
                        consulting regularly with the congressional defense committees to keep such committees fully informed on all matters relating to the responsibilities described in paragraph (1).
                     
                  
                  
                     (b)
                     Notification
                     Not later than 30 days after the date on which the Secretary of Defense makes the designation under subsection (a), the Secretary shall submit to the congressional defense committees a notification that includes the name of the individual so designated.
                  
                  
                     (c)
                     Annual report
                     Not later than December 1, 2025, and annually thereafter until December 1, 2030, the Secretary shall submit to the congressional defense committees a report detailing, for the period covered by the year prior to the report, matters relating to the efforts described in subsection (a).
                     
                        (1)
                        Form
                        Each report submitted under this subsection shall be submitted in unclassified form, but may include a classified annex.
                     
                     
                        (2)
                        Sunset
                        This section shall cease to have effect on the date that is 5 years after the date of the enactment of this Act.
                     
                  
               
               
                  1316.
                  REPORT ON PROHIBITION WITH RESPECT TO CERTAIN FEDERAL GRANTS TO ENSURE RESEARCH SECURITY
                  
                     (a)
                     In general
                     Not later than April 1, 2025, the Secretary of Defense shall prepare and submit to the congressional defense committees and the congressional intelligence committees a report on the feasibility and effects of implementing the prohibition described in subsection (b) with respect to the provision of certain Federal research grants by elements of the Department of Defense.
                  
                  
                     (b)
                     Prohibition described
                     The prohibition described in this subsection shall include the following elements: 
                     
                        (1)
                        Prohibition
                        Except as provided under paragraph (2), the head of any element of the Department of Defense may not award a Federal grant for research to any institution or person if the head of such element cannot verify that none of the individuals, institutions, or entities that partner with the grantee, formally or informally, are, as applicable—
                        
                           (A)
                           individuals from institutions located in any country of concern; or
                        
                        
                           (B)
                           institutions or entities from or located in any country of concern.
                        
                     
                     
                        (2)
                        Waivers
                        The head of an element of the Department of Defense may, on a nondelegable basis except with respect to the deputy head of such element, waive the prohibition under paragraph (1) on a case-by-case basis upon notification, not later than 30 days after the date such waiver is granted, to each appropriate congressional committee of jurisdiction.
                     
                     
                        (3)
                        Form
                        The contents of a waiver reported under paragraph (2) may be reported in classified or unclassified form, as determined appropriate by the head of the element of the Department of Defense concerned.
                     
                  
                  
                     (c)
                     Country of concern defined
                     For purposes of this section, the term country of concern has the meaning given that term in section 1(m)(1) of the State Department Basic Authorities Act of 1956 (22 U.S.C. 2651a(m)(1)).
                  
               
               
                  1317.
                  PROHIBITION ON USE OF FUNDS TO SUPPORT ENTERTAINMENT ENTITIES WHICH PRODUCE OR CO-PRODUCE FOR CHINESE PROPAGANDA
                  
                     (a)
                     In general
                     None of the funds authorized to be appropriated by this Act or otherwise made available for fiscal year 2025 may be made available to knowingly provide active and direct support to any entertainment company or project if the Secretary of Defense has demonstrable evidence that—
                     
                        (1)
                        the entertainment company has entered into or maintains an agreement for the purposes of production or co-production of a project with a covered entity that has used, produced, or co-produced entertainment content for propaganda purposes; or
                     
                     
                        (2)
                        the entertainment project is produced or co-produced with a covered entity that has used, produced, or co-produced entertainment content for propaganda purposes.
                     
                  
                  
                     (b)
                     Covered entity
                     In this section, the term covered entity means any media entity owned by or controlled by the Chinese Communist Party, the People’s Republic of China, or the People’s Liberation Army.
                  
                  
                     (c)
                     Waiver
                     The Secretary of Defense may waive the prohibition under subsection (a) if the Secretary submits to the Committees on Armed Services of the Senate and House of Representatives a written certification that such a waiver is in the national interest of the United States.
                  
                  
                     (d)
                     Policy required
                     Not later than 180 days after the date of enactment of this Act, the Secretary of Defense shall issue a policy that describes how the Department of Defense shall update its processes to review requests to provide active or direct support to any entertainment company or project to comply with the requirements of this section.
                  
               
               
                  1318.
                  INVITATION TO TAIWAN TO THE RIM OF THE PACIFIC EXERCISE
                  The Secretary of Defense is directed to invite the naval forces of Taiwan to any Rim of the Pacific Exercise that is to take place following the date of enactment of this Act.
               
               
                  1319.
                  REPORT ON FEASIBILITY OF DEVELOPING AND DEPLOYING ASYMMETRIC NAVAL ASSETS IN DEFENSE OF TAIWAN
                  
                     (a)
                     Report
                     Not later than 180 days after the date of the enactment of this Act, the Secretary of Defense, in consultation with the heads of other relevant Federal departments and agencies, shall submit a classified report, along with an unclassified summary, to the appropriate congressional committees that contains an assessment of—
                     
                        (1)
                        the feasibility of developing and deploying asymmetric naval assets for a potential defense of Taiwan;
                     
                     
                        (2)
                        whether Taiwan’s ability to deter, or in the alternative confront, a maritime invasion by the People’s Republic of China would be enhanced by deployment of small, high-speed, long-range (200 or more nautical miles), extreme-weather-capable, reduced-radar-signature boats with the capacity for launching missiles, addressing subsurface threats or delivering and recovering small troop units to coastal and littoral locations in the vicinity of the Taiwan Strait, and, if so, in what number and in what configurations;
                     
                     
                        (3)
                        whether existing and planned Tuo Chiang class catamaran-hulled corvettes are naval assets capable of fully meeting the needs of an effective asymmetric naval defense strategy; and
                     
                     
                        (4)
                        the vulnerability of Taiwan’s existing larger-platform surface naval fleet, including Keelung-class destroyers, Cheung Kung-class frigates, Chi Yang-class frigates, Kang Ding-class frigates.
                     
                  
                  
                     (b)
                     Appropriate congressional committees defined
                     In this section, the term appropriate congressional committees means—
                     
                        (1)
                        the Committee on Armed Services and the Committee on Foreign Relations of the Senate; and
                     
                     
                        (2)
                        the Committee on Armed Services and the Committee on Foreign Affairs of the House of Representatives.
                     
                  
               
               
                  1320.
                  REPORT ON IMPACT OF THE MALIGN INFLUENCE OF CHINA AND RUSSIA
                  
                     (a)
                     In general
                     Not later than 1 year after the date of the enactment of this Act, the Secretary of Defense, in consultation with the heads of other Federal departments and agencies as necessary, shall submit to the Committees on Armed Services of the Senate and the House of Representatives a report that includes a detailed assessment of the impact of the malign influence of China and Russia in Africa, South America, Central America, and the Caribbean on the national security and economic interests of the United States.
                  
                  
                     (b)
                     Elements
                     The report required by subsection (a) shall also include the following:
                     
                        (1)
                        A detailed description of the—
                        
                           (A)
                           current political, economic, and social stability of Africa, South America, Central America, and the Caribbean;
                        
                        
                           (B)
                           economic investments of Russia and China in Africa, South America, Central America, and the Caribbean, and the collateral conditions;
                        
                        
                           (C)
                           impact of the presence of Russia and China in Africa, South America, Central America, and the Caribbean on democracy and diplomacy; and
                        
                        
                           (D)
                           use of private military companies by Russia and China to advance political, economic, and military interests.
                        
                     
                     
                        (2)
                        An assessment of the—
                        
                           (A)
                           direct and indirect impacts of Russia and China’s presence in Africa, South America, Central America, and the Caribbean on the national and regional security interests of the United States;
                        
                        
                           (B)
                           current United States military and diplomatic strategies in response to the expansion of Chinese and Russian influence in Africa, South America, Central America, and the Caribbean;
                        
                        
                           (C)
                           assets and resources available to counter threats from Russia and China, and protect the security interests of the United States; and
                        
                        
                           (D)
                           United States military force posture in Africa, South America, Central America, and the Caribbean.
                        
                     
                  
                  
                     (c)
                     Form of report
                     The report required under subsection (a) shall be submitted in unclassified form without any designation relating to dissemination control, but may include a classified annex.
                  
               
               
                  1321.
                  REPORT ON SUPPORT FOR TAIWAN’S MILITARY PREPAREDNESS
                  
                     (a)
                     In general
                     Not later than one year after the date of the enactment of this Act, and annually thereafter, the Secretary of State, in consultation with the Secretary of Defense, the Secretary of the Treasury, and the Director of National Intelligence, shall submit to the appropriate congressional committees a report on deterrence in the Taiwan Strait.
                  
                  
                     (b)
                     Elements
                     The report required by subsection (a) shall include the following:
                     
                        (1)
                        An assessment on the feasibility of economic tools to deter the People’s Republic of China from conducting covered contingencies.
                     
                     
                        (2)
                        An assessment by the Secretary of State, in consultation with the Director of National Intelligence, on how covered countries would likely respond to various covered contingencies. 
                     
                     
                        (3)
                        A description of the policy changes the Secretary of State would recommend in response to covered contingencies.
                     
                     
                        (4)
                        A description of the messaging the Secretary of State would employ to in response to covered contingencies.
                     
                  
                  
                     (c)
                     Form
                     The report required by subsection (a) shall be submitted in classified form with an unclassified summary.
                  
                  
                     (d)
                     Definitions
                     In this section—
                     
                        (1)
                        the term appropriate congressional committees means—
                        
                           (A)
                           the Committee on Foreign Affairs, the Committee on Armed Services, and the Committee on Financial Services of the House of Representatives; and
                        
                        
                           (B)
                           the Committee on Foreign Relations, the Committee on Armed Services, and the Committee on Banking of the Senate;
                        
                     
                     
                        (2)
                        the term covered contingencies include—
                        
                           (A)
                           a military strike or invasion of one or more of Taiwan’s off-shore islands, including Kinmen, Matsu, Wuciou, and Taiping Island;
                        
                        
                           (B)
                           a military strike against the Island of Taiwan or Penghu;
                        
                        
                           (C)
                           a commercial blockade of Taiwan in which international vessels are subjected to search or seizure by the People’s Liberation Army;
                        
                        
                           (D)
                           a major cyber-attack against the critical infrastructure of Taiwan; and
                        
                        
                           (E)
                           a seizure of one or several of Taiwan’s outlining islands or territorial claims; and
                        
                     
                     
                        (3)
                        the term “covered countries” means Japan, the Republic of Korea, the Philippines, and Vietnam, and any other country the Secretary of State determines to be relevant.
                     
                  
               
            
         
         
            XIV
            OTHER AUTHORIZATIONS
            
               A
               Military Programs
               
                  1401.
                  WORKING CAPITAL FUNDS
                  Funds are hereby authorized to be appropriated for fiscal year 2025 for the use of the Armed Forces and other activities and agencies of the Department of Defense for providing capital for working capital and revolving funds, as specified in the funding table in section 4501.
               
               
                  1402.
                  CHEMICAL AGENTS AND MUNITIONS DESTRUCTION, DEFENSE
                  
                     (a)
                     Authorization of appropriations
                     Funds are hereby authorized to be appropriated for the Department of Defense for fiscal year 2025 for expenses, not otherwise provided for, for Chemical Agents and Munitions Destruction, Defense, as specified in the funding table in section 4501.
                  
                  
                     (b)
                     Use
                     Amounts authorized to be appropriated under subsection (a) are authorized for—
                     
                        (1)
                        the destruction of lethal chemical agents and munitions in accordance with section 1412 of the Department of Defense Authorization Act, 1986 (50 U.S.C. 1521); and
                     
                     
                        (2)
                        the destruction of chemical warfare materiel of the United States that is not covered by section 1412 of such Act.
                     
                  
               
               
                  1403.
                  DRUG INTERDICTION AND COUNTER-DRUG ACTIVITIES, DEFENSE-WIDE
                  Funds are hereby authorized to be appropriated for the Department of Defense for fiscal year 2025 for expenses, not otherwise provided for, for Drug Interdiction and Counter-Drug Activities, Defense-wide, as specified in the funding table in section 4501.
               
               
                  1404.
                  DEFENSE INSPECTOR GENERAL
                  Funds are hereby authorized to be appropriated for the Department of Defense for fiscal year 2025 for expenses, not otherwise provided for, for the Office of the Inspector General of the Department of Defense, as specified in the funding table in section 4501.
               
               
                  1405.
                  DEFENSE HEALTH PROGRAM
                  Funds are hereby authorized to be appropriated for fiscal year 2025 for the Defense Health Program for use of the Armed Forces and other activities and agencies of the Department of Defense for providing for the health of eligible beneficiaries, as specified in the funding table in section 4501.
               
            
            
               B
               National Defense Stockpile
               
                  1411.
                  USE OF DOMESTIC SOURCES BY NATIONAL DEFENSE STOCKPILE
                  Section 15(a)(1) of the Strategic and Critical Materials Stock Piling Act (50 U.S.C. 98h-6(a)(1)) is amended by inserting , to the maximum extent practicable after stockpile.
               
               
                  1412.
                  RESTORING THE NATIONAL DEFENSE STOCKPILE
                  
                     (a)
                     Plan to fully fund existing National Defense Stockpile requirements
                     Not later than April 15, 2025, the Secretary of Defense shall submit to the congressional defense committees a plan that includes the following:
                     
                        (1)
                        A identification of the strategic and critical materials for which there is a shortfall in the National Defense Stockpile, as determined by the Secretary, and the estimated cost of resolving such shortfalls.
                     
                     
                        (2)
                        A description of the effect of the shortfall identified under paragraph (1) on military systems and operations identified by the Secretary if the strategic and critical materials for which there is such a shortfall became unavailable;
                     
                     
                        (3)
                        A plan for resolving the shortfall identified under paragraph (1) and to avoid any future shortfall in the National Defense Stockpile—
                        
                           (A)
                           with respect to the military and industrial needs of the United States during a national emergency, not later than December 31, 2027; and
                        
                        
                           (B)
                           with respect to the essential civilian needs of the United States during a national emergency, not later than December 31, 2029.
                        
                     
                     
                        (4)
                        A plan to prioritize the procurement of strategic and critical materials to resolve the shortfall identified under paragraph (1) which includes the procurement of the following:
                        
                           (A)
                           Rare earth elements and critical minerals.
                        
                        
                           (B)
                           Energetic materials (as defined in section 148 of title 10, United States Code).
                        
                        
                           (C)
                           Spare or replacement parts for weapon systems of the Department of Defense.
                        
                        
                           (D)
                           Materials for trusted and assured microelectronics for the Department of Defense.
                        
                     
                     
                        (5)
                        A description of the additional funds that would be necessary to resolve the shortfall identified under paragraph (1) if the National Defense Stockpile was required to meet the national defense needs of the United States for a period of—
                        
                           (A)
                           not less than two years during a national emergency; and
                        
                        
                           (B)
                           not less than three years during a national emergency.
                        
                     
                  
                  
                     (b)
                     Definitions
                     In this section:
                     
                        (1)
                        National emergency
                        The term national emergency has the meaning given such term under section 12 of the Strategic and Critical Materials Stock Piling Act (50 U.S.C. 98h–3).
                     
                     
                        (2)
                        Strategic and critical materials
                        The term strategic and critical materials means materials determined pursuant to section 3(a) of the Strategic and Critical Materials Stock Piling Act (50 U.S.C. 98b(a)) to be strategic and critical materials.
                     
                  
               
               
                  1413.
                  CONSULTATIONS WITH RESPECT TO ENVIRONMENTAL REVIEW OF CERTAIN PROJECTS RELATING TO AVAILABILITY OF STRATEGIC AND CRITICAL MATERIALS FOR ACQUISITION FOR NATIONAL DEFENSE STOCKPILE
                  
                     (a)
                     In general
                     In the case of a covered project that will result in an increase in the availability of strategic and critical materials for acquisition for the Stockpile, the Secretary shall consult with the head of any cooperating agency or participating agency responsible for the environmental review for the project.
                  
                  
                     (b)
                     Definitions
                     In this section:
                     
                        (1)
                        FAST Act terms
                        The terms cooperating agencies, covered project, environmental review, and participating agency have the meanings given those terms section 41001 of the FAST Act (42 U.S.C. 4370m).
                     
                     
                        (2)
                        Secretary
                        The term Secretary means the Secretary of Defense.
                     
                     
                        (3)
                        Stockpile
                        The term Stockpile means the National Defense Stockpile established under section 3 of the Strategic and Critical Materials Stock Piling Act (50 U.S.C. 98b). 
                     
                     
                        (4)
                        Strategic and critical materials
                        The term strategic and critical materials means materials, including rare earth elements, that are necessary to meet national defense and national security requirements, including requirements relating to supply chain resiliency, and for the economic security of the United States.
                     
                  
               
            
            
               C
               Other Matters
               
                  1421.
                  EXTENSION OF AUTHORITIES FOR FUNDING AND MANAGEMENT OF JOINT DEPARTMENT OF DEFENSE-DEPARTMENT OF VETERANS AFFAIRS MEDICAL FACILITY DEMONSTRATION FUND FOR CAPTAIN JAMES A. LOVELL HEALTH CARE CENTER, ILLINOIS
                  
                     (a)
                     In general
                     Section 1704(e) of the National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2010 (Public Law 111–84; 123 Stat. 2573), as most recently amended by section 104 of division E of the Continuing Appropriations and Ukraine Supplemental Appropriations Act, 2023 (Public Law 117–180, 136 Stat. 2137), is amended by striking September 30, 2024 and inserting September 30, 2025.
                  
                  
                     (b)
                     Authority for transfer of funds
                     Of the funds authorized to be appropriated for section 1405 and available for the Defense Health Program for operation and maintenance, $162,500,000 may be transferred by the Secretary of Defense to the Joint Department of Defense–Department of Veterans Affairs Medical Facility Demonstration Fund established by subsection (a)(1) of section 1704 of the National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2010 (Public Law 111–84; 123 Stat. 2571). For purposes of subsection (a)(2) of such section 1704, any funds so transferred shall be treated as amounts authorized and appropriated specifically for the purpose of such a transfer.
                  
                  
                     (c)
                     Use of transferred funds
                     For the purposes of subsection (b) of such section 1704, facility operations for which funds transferred under subsection (b) of this section may be used are operations of the Captain James A. Lovell Federal Health Care Center, consisting of the North Chicago Veterans Affairs Medical Center, the Navy Ambulatory Care Center, and supporting facilities designated as a combined Federal medical facility under an operational agreement covered by section 706 of the Duncan Hunter National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2009 (Public Law 110–417; 122 Stat. 4500).
                  
               
               
                  1422.
                  ELIGIBILITY OF SPACE FORCE OFFICERS FOR MEMBERSHIP ON ARMED FORCES RETIREMENT HOME ADVISORY COUNCIL
                  
                     (a)
                     Space Force chief personnel officer
                     Section 1502(5) of the Armed Forces Retirement Home Act of 1991 (24 U.S.C. 401(5)) is amended—
                     
                        (1)
                        in subparagraph (D), by striking and at the end;
                     
                     
                        (2)
                        in subparagraph (E), by striking the period at the end and inserting ; and; and
                     
                     
                        (3)
                        by adding at the end the following new subparagraph: 
                        
                           
                              (F)
                              the Deputy Chief of Space Operations for Human Capital of the Space Force.
                           
                           .
                        
                     
                  
                  
                     (b)
                     Space Force senior noncommissioned officer
                     Section 1502(6) of such Act (24 U.S.C. 401(6)) is amended by adding at the end the following new subparagraph:
                     
                        
                           (F)
                           The Chief Master Sergeant of the Space Force.
                        
                        .
                     
                  
               
               
                  1423.
                  AUTHORIZATION OF APPROPRIATIONS FOR ARMED FORCES RETIREMENT HOME
                  There is hereby authorized to be appropriated for fiscal year 2025 from the Armed Forces Retirement Home Trust Fund the sum of $69,520,000 of which—
                  
                     (1)
                     $68,520,000 is for operating expenses; and
                  
                  
                     (2)
                     $1,000,000 is for capital maintenance and construction.
                  
               
            
         
         
            XV
            CYBERSPACE-RELATED MATTERS
            
               A
               Cyber Operations
               
                  1501.
                  AUTHORITY TO ACCEPT VOLUNTARY AND UNCOMPENSATED SERVICES FROM CYBERSECURITY EXPERTS
                  Section 167b(d) of title 10, United States Code, is amended by adding at the end the following new paragraph:
                  
                     
                        (4)
                        The Commander of the United States Cyber Command may accept voluntary and uncompensated services from cybersecurity experts, notwithstanding the provisions of section 1342 of title 31, and may delegate such authority to the chiefs of the armed forces.
                     
                     .
                  
               
               
                  1502.
                  ESTABLISHMENT OF THE DEPARTMENT OF DEFENSE HACKATHON PROGRAM
                  
                     (a)
                     In general
                     Not later than 180 days after the enactment of this Act, the Chief Digital and Artificial Intelligence Officer of the Department of Defense, in coordination with the Chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff and the Chief Information Officer of the Department of Defense, shall establish a program (to be known as the Department of Defense Hackathon Program) under which the commanders of combatant commands and the Secretaries of the military departments shall carry out not fewer than four Hackathons each year.
                  
                  
                     (b)
                     Program management
                     The Chief Digital and Artificial Intelligence Officer of the Department of Defense shall develop and implement standards for carrying out Hackathons, provide supporting technical infrastructure to the host of each Hackathon, and determine the hosts each year under subsection (c)(1).
                  
                  
                     (c)
                     Hosts
                     
                        (1)
                        
                           (A)
                           Each year, two commanders of combatant commands shall each carry out a Hackathon and two Secretaries of a military department shall each carry out a Hackathon, as determined by the Chief Digital and Artificial Intelligence Officer of the Department of Defense in accordance with this subsection.
                        
                        
                           (B)
                           The commanders of combatant commands and the Secretaries of military departments carrying out Hackathons pursuant to subparagraph (A) shall change each year.
                        
                        
                           (C)
                           Each host of a Hackathon shall—
                           
                              (i)
                              provide to the participants invited to participate in such Hackathon a per diem allowance in accordance with section 5702 of title 5, United States Code, or section 452 of title 37, United States Code, as applicable; and
                           
                           
                              (ii)
                              not later than 60 days after the completion of such Hackathon, make available to the Department of Defense a report on such Hackathon.
                           
                        
                     
                     
                        (2)
                        Any commander of a combatant command or Secretary of a military department may carry out a Hackathon in addition to the Hackathons required under paragraph (1).
                     
                  
                  
                     (d)
                     Hackathon objectives
                     
                        (1)
                        The host of each Hackathon shall establish objectives for the Hackathon that address a critical, technical challenge of the combatant command or military department of the host, as applicable, through the use of individuals with specialized and relevant skills, including data scientists, developers, software engineers, and other specialists as determined appropriate by the Chief Digital and Artificial Intelligence Officer of the Department of Defense or the host.
                     
                     
                        (2)
                        In addition to the objectives established by the host of a Hackathon under subparagraph (A), the objectives for each Hackathon shall include—
                        
                           (A)
                           fostering innovation across the Department of Defense, including in military departments and the combatant commands; and
                        
                        
                           (B)
                           creating repeatable processes enabling the commanders of combatant commands and the Secretaries of the military departments to more rapidly identify and develop solutions to critical, technical challenges across the Department of Defense.
                        
                     
                  
                  
                     (e)
                     Definitions
                     In this section—
                     
                        (1)
                        the term Hackathon means an event carried out under the Program at which employees across the Department of Defense meet to collaboratively attempt to develop functional software or hardware solutions during the event to solve a critical, technical challenge determined by the host;
                     
                     
                        (2)
                        the term host, with respect to a Hackathon, means the commander of the combatant command or the Secretary of the military department carrying out the Hackathon;
                     
                     
                        (3)
                        the term military department has the meaning given such term in section 101(a) of title 10, United States Code; and
                     
                     
                        (4)
                        the term Program means the program established under subsection (a).
                     
                  
               
               
                  1503.
                  DEPARTMENT OF DEFENSE INFORMATION NETWORK SUBORDINATE UNIFIED COMMAND
                  
                     (a)
                     In general
                     Not later than 120 days after the date of the enactment of this Act, the Secretary of Defense shall designate the Joint Force Headquarters-Department of Defense Information Network as a subordinate unified command under the United States Cyber Command.
                  
                  
                     (b)
                     Designation notice
                     On the date on which the Secretary of Defense makes the designation required by subsection (a), the Secretary shall issue to the Secretary of each military department (as defined in section 101(a) of title 10, United States Code), the Chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff, the Under Secretaries of the Department of Defense, the Chief of the National Guard Bureau, the General Counsel of the Department of Defense, the Director of Cost Assessment and Program Evaluation, the Inspector General of the Department of Defense, the Director of Operational Test and Evaluation, the Chief Information Officer of the Department of Defense, the Assistant Secretary of Defense for Legislative Affairs, the Assistant Secretary of Defense for Special Operations and Low Intensity Conflict, the Chief Digital and Artificial Intelligence Officer of the Department of Defense, the commander of each combatant command, and the head of each Defense Agency and Department of Defense Field Activity (as such terms are defined, respectively, in section 101(a) of title 10, United States Code) a notice regarding—
                     
                        (1)
                        the designation of the Joint Force Headquarters-Department of Defense Information Network as a subordinate unified command under the United States Cyber Command; and
                     
                     
                        (2)
                        the mission of the Joint Force Headquarters-Department of Defense Information Network as the lead organization for the network operations, security, and defense of the Department of Defense Information Network.
                     
                  
               
               
                  1504.
                  ACCOUNTING OF CLOUD COMPUTING CAPABILITIES OF THE DEPARTMENT OF DEFENSE
                  
                     (a)
                     In general
                     Not later than October 15, 2025, and every six months thereafter, the Chief Information Office of the Department, in coordination with the Chief Data and Artificial Intelligence Officer of the Department, shall provide to the congressional defense committees a report listing the current and planned cloud elements of the Department and containing the roadmap required under subsection (b).
                  
                  
                     (b)
                     Accounting contents
                     Each report under subsection (a) shall include for each current or planned cloud element of the Department a detailed roadmap that includes the following:
                     
                        (1)
                        The dates for any planned or ongoing replacement, update, modification, or retirement of the cloud element, including—
                        
                           (A)
                           specific dates for—
                           
                              (i)
                              any planned or ongoing major updates or upgrades of such cloud element; and
                           
                           
                              (ii)
                              the use of interim capabilities by or in place of such cloud element; and
                           
                        
                        
                           (B)
                           dates for such other activities with respect to such cloud element as determined appropriate by the Chief Information Officer of the Department.
                        
                     
                     
                        (2)
                         Relevant cost metrics for the cloud element, including the current program cost, cost-to-complete, and incremental costs.
                     
                     
                        (3)
                        The contracting method used, being used, or planned to be used, as applicable, to acquire the cloud element, and in the case of a contractor reselling the cloud element of another entity to the Department, from whom such contractor is obtaining such cloud element.
                     
                     
                        (4)
                        The element of the Department responsible for managing the cloud element, the users of such cloud element, and such other information regarding the management of such could element as the Chief Information Officer of the Department determines appropriate.
                     
                     
                        (5)
                        Relevant metrics regarding the interoperability, accessibility, and usability of such cloud element, as determined by Chief Information Officer of the Department.
                     
                     
                        (6)
                        An assessment of the compliance of the cloud element with the applicable information technology principles and standards of the Department.
                     
                     
                        (7)
                        An assessment of any unique attributes of the cloud element that may inhibit the introduction, replacement, update, modification, or retirement of such cloud element.
                     
                     
                        (8)
                        An assessment of the dependencies, if any, between the cloud element and the introduction, replacement, update, modification, and retirement of any other cloud element of the Department.
                     
                  
                  
                     (c)
                     Report
                     At the same time the budget of the President is submitted to Congress pursuant to section 1105 of title 31, United States Code, for fiscal year 2027 and for each fiscal year thereafter, the Secretary of Defense shall submit to Congress a report on any changes to the roadmap required under subsection (b), including, for each such change, a description and the detailed budgetary effects.
                  
                  
                     (d)
                     Sunset
                     This section shall terminate on December 31, 2030.
                  
                  
                     (e)
                     Definitions
                     In this section—
                     
                        (1)
                        the term cloud element means a cloud computing capability, environment, architecture, or system; and
                     
                     
                        (2)
                        the term Department means the Department of Defense.
                     
                  
               
            
            
               B
               Cybersecurity
               
                  1511.
                  PROTECTIVE MEASURES FOR MOBILE DEVICES WITHIN THE DEPARTMENT OF DEFENSE
                  
                     (a)
                     In general
                     The Secretary of Defense shall carry out a detailed evaluation of the cybersecurity products and services for mobile devices to identify products and services that may improve the cybersecurity of mobile devices used by the Department of Defense, including mitigating the risk to the Department of Defense from cyber attacks against mobile devices.
                  
                  
                     (b)
                     Cybersecurity technologies
                     In carrying out the evaluation required under subsection (a), the Secretary of Defense shall evaluate each of the following technologies:
                     
                        (1)
                        Anonymizing-enabling technologies, including dynamic selector rotation, un-linkable payment structures, and anonymous onboarding.
                     
                     
                        (2)
                        Network-enabled full content inspection.
                     
                     
                        (3)
                        Mobile-device case hardware solutions.
                     
                     
                        (4)
                        On-device virtual private networks.
                     
                     
                        (5)
                        Protected Domain Name Server infrastructure.
                     
                     
                        (6)
                        Extended coverage for mobile device endpoint detection.
                     
                     
                        (7)
                        Smishing, phishing, and business text or email compromise protection leveraging generative artificial intelligence.
                     
                     
                        (8)
                        Any other emerging or established technologies determined appropriate by the Secretary.
                     
                  
                  
                     (c)
                     Elements
                     In carrying out the evaluation required under subsection (a), for each technology described in subsection (b), the Secretary of Defense shall—
                     
                        (1)
                        assess the efficacy and value of the cybersecurity provided by the technology for mobile devices;
                     
                     
                        (2)
                        assess the feasibility of scaling the technology across the entirety or components of the Department of Defense, including the timeline for deploying the technology across the entirety or components of the Department of Defense; and
                     
                     
                        (3)
                        evaluate the ability of the Department of Defense to integrate the technology with the existing cybersecurity architecture of the Department of Defense.
                     
                  
                  
                     (d)
                     Report
                     Not later than 270 days after the date of the enactment of this Act, the Secretary of Defense shall submit to the congressional defense committees a report of the findings of the evaluation carried out under subsection (a), including a determination whether the Department of Defense or any component thereof should procure or incorporate any of the technologies evaluated pursuant to subsection (b).
                  
               
               
                  1512.
                  STRATEGY TO IMPROVE THE USE OF AIR AND MISSILE DEFENSE PARTNER SHARING NETWORK CAPABILITIES WITH ALLIES AND PARTNERS IN THE MIDDLE EAST
                  
                     (a)
                     In general
                     Not later than 180 days after the date of the enactment of this Act, the Secretary of Defense shall submit to the congressional defense committees a strategy to improve cooperation with respect to air and missile defense efforts between the Department of Defense and allies and partners of the United States located in the Middle East.
                  
                  
                     (b)
                     Contents
                     The strategy submitted pursuant to subsection (a) shall include the following:
                     
                        (1)
                        A summary of ongoing efforts to develop a joint air and missile defense partner-sharing network capability for allies and partners of the United States who are located in the Middle East.
                     
                     
                        (2)
                        A summary of challenges to the development of such a joint partner-sharing network capability, including partner-nation actions or decisions.
                     
                     
                        (3)
                        Recommendations for actions that can be taken to address the challenges summarized pursuant to paragraph (2).
                     
                     
                        (4)
                        Recommendations for applying lessons learned from air and missile attacks by the Islamic Republic of Iran and proxies of the Islamic Republic of Iran on United States forces and forces of allies and partners of the United States following October 7, 2023, to the development of such a joint partner-sharing network capability.
                     
                     
                        (5)
                        An assessment of how such a joint partner-sharing network capability could—
                        
                           (A)
                           demonstrate new tools, techniques, or methodologies for data-driven decision making, including capabilities powered by artificial intelligence;
                        
                        
                           (B)
                           accelerate sharing of relevant data, data visualization, and data analysis implemented through cryptographic data access controls and enforcing existing data sharing restrictions across multiple security levels; and
                        
                        
                           (C)
                           leverage current activities in multi-cloud computing environments to reduce the reliance on solely hardware-based networking solutions.
                        
                     
                     
                        (6)
                        Recommendations for actions that can be taken to develop and integrate such a joint partner-sharing network capability with allies and partners of the United States in the Middle East, including identification of policy, resources, workforce, or other shortfalls.
                     
                     
                        (7)
                        Such other matters as the Secretary considers relevant.
                     
                  
                  
                     (c)
                     Form
                     The strategy required by subsection (a) shall be submitted in unclassified form, but may include a classified annex.
                  
               
            
            
               C
               Information Technology and Data Management
               
                  1521.
                  USABILITY OF ANTIQUATED DATA FORMATS FOR MODERN OPERATIONS
                  
                     (a)
                     Strategy and roadmap
                     
                        (1)
                        In general
                        Not later than 270 days after the date of enactment of this act, the Secretary of Defense, in coordination with the Secretaries of the military departments, shall develop—
                        
                           (A)
                           a strategy—
                           
                              (i)
                              for the Department of Defense, including each of the military departments, to implement and use modern data formats as the primary method of electronic communication for command and control activities and for weapon systems, including sensors associated with such weapon systems; and
                           
                           
                              (ii)
                              which accounts for specific needs of each military department with respect to such implementation and use of modern data formats; and
                           
                        
                        
                           (B)
                           an associated five-year roadmap for such implementation.
                        
                     
                     
                        (2)
                        Elements
                        The strategy and roadmap required under paragraph (1) shall include the following elements:
                        
                           (A)
                           The activities of the Chief Digital and Artificial Intelligence Officer of the Department of Defense to increase and synchronize the use of modern data formats and modern data sharing standards across the Department of Defense, including the Armed Forces in the Department of Defense.
                        
                        
                           (B)
                           The activities of the military departments to increase the use of modern data formats and modern data sharing standards for command and control systems, weapon systems, and sensors associated with such weapon systems.
                        
                        
                           (C)
                           An identification of barriers to the use of modern data formats and modern data sharing standards within weapon systems and sensors associated with such weapon systems across the Department of Defense, including the Armed Forces in the Department of Defense.
                        
                        
                           (D)
                           An identification of barriers to the use of modern data formats and modern data sharing standards within command and control systems across the Department of Defense, including the Armed Forces in the Department of Defense.
                        
                        
                           (E)
                           An identification of limitations on combined joint all-domain command and control capabilities resulting from the use of antiquated data formats, including—
                           
                              (i)
                              the Extensible Markup Language file format;
                           
                           
                              (ii)
                              the JavaScript Object Notation data format;
                           
                           
                              (iii)
                              the Binary JavaScript Object Notation data format; and
                           
                           
                              (iv)
                              the Protocol Buffers data format.
                           
                        
                     
                     
                        (3)
                        Submission to Congress
                        Upon completion of the strategy and roadmap required under this subsection, the Secretary of Defense shall submit to the Committees on Armed Services of the Senate and the House of Representatives such strategy.
                     
                  
                  
                     (b)
                     Pilot programs
                     
                        (1)
                        Establishment
                        Not later than 60 days after the date of enactment of this Act—
                        
                           (A)
                           the Secretary of Defense shall establish a pilot program under which the Department of Defense, other than the military departments, shall use modern data formats to improve the usability and functionality of information stored or produced in antiquated data formats, including by converting such information to modern data formats; and
                        
                        
                           (B)
                           each Secretary of a military department shall establish a pilot program under which such military department shall use modern data formats as described in subparagraph (A).
                        
                     
                     
                        (2)
                        Briefing
                        Not later than 180 days after the date of enactment, the Secretary of Defense and the Secretaries of the military departments shall each submit to the Committees on Armed Services of the Senate and the House of Representatives a briefing on the progress of the pilot program established by such Secretary under this subsection, including specific examples of the use of modern data formats under such pilot program to improve the usability and functionality of information stored or produced in antiquated data formats.
                     
                     
                        (3)
                        Sunset
                        Each pilot program established under this subsection shall terminate on the date that is three years after the date of the enactment of this Act.
                     
                  
                  
                     (c)
                     Military department defined
                     In this section, the term military department has the meaning given such term in section 101(a) of title 10, United States Code.
                  
               
               
                  1522.
                  MODERNIZATION OF THE DEPARTMENT OF DEFENSE’S AUTHORIZATION TO OPERATE PROCESSES
                  
                     (a)
                     Active directory of authorizing officials
                     
                        (1)
                        In general
                        Not later than 270 days after the date of the enactment of this Act, the Secretary of Defense, acting through the Chief Information Officer of the Department of Defense and in coordination with the Chief Information Officers of the military departments, shall establish and regularly update a digital directory of all authorizing officials in the military departments.
                     
                     
                        (2)
                        Contents
                        The directory established under paragraph (1) shall include—
                        
                           (A)
                           the most current contact information for such authorizing official; and
                        
                        
                           (B)
                           a list of each training required to perform the duties and responsibilities of an authorizing official completed by such authorizing official.
                        
                     
                  
                  
                     (b)
                     Presumption of reciprocal software accrediting standards
                     
                        (1)
                        In general
                        Not later than 270 days after the date of the enactment of this Act, the Chief Information Officers of the military departments shall jointly develop and implement a policy and guidance—
                        
                           (A)
                           requiring authorizing officials in the military departments to presume the cybersecurity of a cloud-based platform, service, or application that has already been accredited by another authorizing official in a military department for the same or similar purposes and the same classification level when determining whether to approve or deny a request for an Authorization to Operate for such cloud-based platform, service, or application; and
                        
                        
                           (B)
                           requiring authorizing officials in the military departments to consult with the current or planned mission owners of a cloud-based platform, service, or application that will use such cloud-based platform, service, or application pursuant to an Authorization to Operate for such cloud-based platform, service, or application when such authorizing official is making a determination whether to approve or deny the request for such Authorization to Operate.
                        
                     
                     
                        (2)
                        Criteria
                        The policy and guidance required under paragraph (1) shall—
                        
                           (A)
                           require each relevant authorizing official in a military department who is making a determination to approve or deny a request for an Authorization to Operate for a cloud-based platform, service, or application to ensure that documentation containing all of the relevant details of the cybersecurity, accreditation, performance, and operational capabilities of such cloud-based platform, service, or application is easily accessible and comprehensible to all relevant stakeholders with respect to such request; and
                        
                        
                           (B)
                           require the development and implementation of a system for the digital sharing of the documentation described in subparagraph (A), including documenting the communication and acknowledgment of the uses of cloud-based platforms, services, and applications between mission owners and system owners of such cloud-based platforms, services, and applications.
                        
                     
                     
                        (3)
                        Applicability
                        The policy and guidance developed under this subsection shall apply with respect to all cloud-based platforms, services, and applications capabilities operating across accredited cloud environments of the military departments, to the extent practicable.
                     
                  
                  
                     (c)
                     Definitions
                     In this section—
                     
                        (1)
                        the term Authorization to Operate has the meaning given such term in the Office of Management and Budget Circular A-130;
                     
                     
                        (2)
                        the term authorizing official means an officer who is authorized to assume responsibility for operating an information system at an acceptable level of risk to organizational operations (including mission, functions, image, or reputation), organizational assets, individuals, other organizations and the United States;
                     
                     
                        (3)
                        the term military departments has the meaning given such term in section 101(a) of title 10, United States Code;
                     
                     
                        (4)
                        the term mission owner means the user of a cloud-based platform, service, or application; and
                     
                     
                        (5)
                        the term system owner means the element of the Department of Defense responsible for acquiring a cloud-based platform, service, or application, but which is not a mission owner of such cloud-based platform, service, or application.
                     
                  
               
               
                  1523.
                  ASSESSMENT OF INNOVATIVE DATA ANALYSIS AND INFORMATION TECHNOLOGY SOLUTIONS
                   Not later than 180 days after the date of the enactment of this Act, the Secretary of Defense shall submit to the congressional defense committees a report containing the results of an assessment of the implementation by the Department of Defense of innovative data analysis and information technology solutions that could improve risk management, agility, and capabilities for strategic defense purposes.
               
            
            
               D
               Reports and Other Matters
               
                  1531.
                  MODIFICATION TO CERTIFICATION REQUIREMENT REGARDING CONTRACTING FOR MILITARY RECRUITING
                  Section 1555 of the National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2024 (Public Law 118–31; 137 Stat. 581; 10 U.S.C. 503 note) is amended—
                  
                     (1)
                     in subsection (a), by striking does not and all that follows and inserting the following:
                     
                        does not—
                        
                           (1)
                           rate or rank news or information sources for the factual accuracy of their content;
                        
                        
                           (2)
                           provide ratings or opinions on news or information sources regarding misinformation, bias, adherence to journalistic standards, or ethics; or
                        
                        
                           (3)
                           acquire or use any service that provides any ratings, rankings, or opinions described in paragraph (1) or (2) from any other individual or entity.
                        
                        ; and
                     
                  
                  
                     (2)
                     by striking subsection (c).
                  
               
               
                  1532.
                  REPORT ON TOTAL FORCE GENERATION FOR THE CYBERSPACE OPERATIONS FORCES
                  Section 1533(a) of the National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2023 (Public Law 117–263; 10 U.S.C. 167b note) is amended by adding at the end the following:
                  
                     
                        (4)
                        Report
                        Not later than September 30, 2024, the Secretary shall submit to congressional defense committees the study required in subsection (a) and any supporting analyses conducted by other entities, including federally funded research and development centers.
                     
                     .
                  
               
               
                  1533.
                  ACCESS TO NATIONAL SUICIDE PREVENTION AND MENTAL HEALTH CRISIS HOTLINE SYSTEM
                  
                     (a)
                     In general
                     The Chief Information Officer shall, as soon as practicable, implement at each facility of the Department access to the universal telephone number for the national suicide prevention and mental health crisis hotline system described in section 251(e)(4) of the Communications Act of 1934 (47 U.S.C. 251(e)(4)).
                  
                  
                     (b)
                     Report
                     
                        (1)
                        In general
                        Not later than 180 days after the date of the enactment of this Act, the Chief Information Officer shall submit to the congressional defense committees a report describing the resources required to implement the access described in subsection (a) at each facility of the Department.
                     
                     
                        (2)
                        Contents
                        The report required by paragraph (1) shall include—
                        
                           (A)
                           a timeline for the implementation of the access described in subsection (a), disaggregated by geographic location to the extent determined appropriate by the Chief Information Officer;
                        
                        
                           (B)
                           a description of the actions required to implement such access at facilities of the Department located outside of the United States; and
                        
                        
                           (C)
                           an analysis of the feasibility and cost of automatically conveying dispatchable location information with each call to the universal telephone number described in subsection (a) from a facility of the Department.
                        
                     
                  
                  
                     (c)
                     Definitions
                     In this section—
                     
                        (1)
                        the term Chief Information Officer means the Chief Information Officer of the Department;
                     
                     
                        (2)
                        the term Department means the Department of the Defense; and
                     
                     
                        (3)
                        the term dispatchable information means the street address of the calling party and additional information such as room number, floor number, or similar information necessary to adequately identify the location of the calling party.
                     
                  
               
               
                  1534.
                  LIMITATION ON AVAILABILITY OF TRAVEL FUNDS
                  
                     (a)
                     Limits
                     
                        (1)
                        Office of the Secretary of Defense
                        Of the funds authorized to be appropriated by this Act or otherwise made available for fiscal year 2025 for Operation and Maintenance, Defense-Wide, Office of the Secretary of Defense for travel, not more than 75 percent may be obligated or expended until—
                        
                           (A)
                           the Secretary of Defense complies with the applicable requirements in section 1521 of the National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2022 (10 U.S.C. 2224 note); and
                        
                        
                           (B)
                           the Secretary of Defense and each Department employee comply with the congressional reporting requirements that are applicable to the Secretary or such Department employee, respectively, in—
                           
                              (i)
                              sections 1636(c), 1644, and 1645 of the National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2020 (Public Law 116–92; 133 Stat. 1720);
                           
                           
                              (ii)
                              sections 1720, 1736, and 1750 of the William M. (Mac) Thornberry National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2021 (Public Law 116–283; 134 Stat. 4078);
                           
                           
                              (iii)
                              sections 1501, 1503, 1504, 1505, 1510, and 1526 of the National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2022 (Public Law 117–81; 135 Stat. 2020); and
                           
                           
                              (iv)
                              sections 1504, 1506, 1507, and 1509 of the James M. Inhofe National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2023 (Public Law 117–263; 136 Stat. 2876).
                           
                        
                     
                     
                        (2)
                        Military departments
                        
                           (A)
                           Army
                           Of the funds authorized to be appropriated by this Act or otherwise made available for fiscal year 2025 for Operation and Maintenance, Army, for the official travel of the Secretary of the Army, not more than 75 percent may be obligated or expended until the Secretary complies with the congressional reporting requirements applicable to the Secretary in—
                           
                              (i)
                              section 1505 of the National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2022 (10 U.S.C. 394 note); and
                           
                           
                              (ii)
                              section 1723 of the William M. (Mac) Thornberry National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2021 (10 U.S.C. 394 note).
                           
                        
                        
                           (B)
                           Navy
                           Of the funds authorized to be appropriated by this Act or otherwise made available for fiscal year 2025 for Operation and Maintenance, Navy, for the official travel of the Secretary of the Navy, not more than 75 percent may be obligated or expended until the Secretary complies with the congressional reporting requirements applicable to the Secretary in—
                           
                              (i)
                              section 1505 of the National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2022 (10 U.S.C. 394 note); and
                           
                           
                              (ii)
                              section 1723 of the William M. (Mac) Thornberry National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2021 (10 U.S.C. 394 note).
                           
                        
                        
                           (C)
                           Air Force
                           Of the funds authorized to be appropriated by this Act or otherwise made available for Operation and Maintenance, Air Force, for the official travel of the Secretary of the Air Force, not more than 75 percent may be obligated or expended until the Secretary complies with the congressional reporting requirements applicable to the Secretary in—
                           
                              (i)
                              section 1505 of the National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2022 (10 U.S.C. 394 note); and
                           
                           
                              (ii)
                              section 1723 of the William M. (Mac) Thornberry National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2021 (10 U.S.C. 394 note).
                           
                        
                     
                     
                        (3)
                        Compliance requirement
                        For the purposes of this subsection, with respect to the Secretary of Defense, the Secretaries of the military departments, and employees of the Department of Defense, compliance with a congressional reporting requirement includes such submitting or otherwise providing, as applicable, each report, briefing, and other written material the Secretary of Defense, such Secretary of a military department, or such employee of the Department of Defense, as applicable, is required to have submitted or otherwise provided under such unmet congressional reporting requirement prior to the date of the enactment of this Act that has not been submitted or otherwise provided.
                     
                  
                  
                     (b)
                     Definitions
                     In this section—
                     
                        (1)
                        the term congressional reporting requirement means a requirement to submit or otherwise provide a report, briefing, or any other written material or oral presentation to Congress or any congressional committee;
                     
                     
                        (2)
                        the term Department employee means an employee of the Department of Defense, other than an employee in a military department; and
                     
                     
                        (3)
                        the term military department has the meaning given such term in section 101(a) of title 10, United States Code.
                     
                  
               
               
                  1535.
                  PROHIBITION ON DISESTABLISHMENT OR MERGER OF OFFICER CAREER PATHS WITHIN THE CYBER BRANCH OF THE UNITED STATES ARMY
                  Beginning on and after the date of the enactment of this Act, the Secretary of the Army is prohibited from any actions to disestablish or merge the Cyber Warfare Officer and Cyber Electromagnetic Warfare Officer career paths within the Cyber Branch of the United States Army.
               
               
                  1536.
                  INDEPENDENT EVALUATION REGARDING POTENTIAL ESTABLISHMENT OF UNITED STATES CYBER FORCE
                  
                     (a)
                     Agreement
                     
                        (1)
                        In general
                        The Secretary of Defense shall seek to enter into an agreement with the National Academies of Sciences, Engineering, and Medicine (in this section referred to as the National Academies) for the National Academies to conduct the evaluation under subsection (b) and submit the report under subsection (e).
                     
                     
                        (2)
                        Timing
                        The Secretary shall seek to enter into the agreement described in paragraph (1) by not later than 60 days after the date of the enactment of this Act.
                     
                  
                  
                     (b)
                     Evaluation
                     
                        (1)
                        In general
                        Under an agreement between the Secretary and the National Academies entered into pursuant to subsection (a), the National Academies shall conduct an evaluation regarding the advisability of—
                        
                           (A)
                           establishing a separate Armed Force in the Department of Defense dedicated to operations in the cyber domain (in this section referred to as the United States Cyber Force); or
                        
                        
                           (B)
                           refining and further evolving the current organizational approach for United States Cyber Command, which is based on the Special Operations Command model.
                        
                     
                     
                        (2)
                        Scope
                        The evaluation conducted pursuant to paragraph (1) shall include consideration of—
                        
                           (A)
                           the potential establishment of a United States Cyber Force as a separate Armed Force in the Department of Defense commensurate with the Army, Navy, Marine Corps, Air Force, and Space Force, for the purpose of organizing, training, and equipping the personnel required to enable and conduct operations in the cyber domain through positions aligned to the United States Cyber Command and other unified combatant commands;
                        
                        
                           (B)
                           a United States Cyber Force able to devise and implement recruiting and retention policies specific to the range of skills and career fields required to enable and conduct cyberspace operations, as determined by the United States Cyber Command and other unified combatant commands;
                        
                        
                           (C)
                           the performance and efficacy of the Armed Forces in the Department of Defense in satisfying the requirements of the current Force Generation Model to enable and conduct operations in the cyber domain through positions aligned to the United States Cyber Command and other unified combatant commands;
                        
                        
                           (D)
                           the historical performance and efficacy of the Armed Forces in the Department of Defense in devising and implementing recruitment and retention policies specific to the range of skills and career fields required to enable and conduct cyberspace operations, as determined by the United States Cyber Command and other unified combatant commands;
                        
                        
                           (E)
                           potential and recommended delineations of responsibility between the other Armed Forces in the Department of Defense and a United States Cyber Force with respect to network management, resourcing, and operations;
                        
                        
                           (F)
                           potential and recommended delineations of responsibility with respect to organizing, training, and equipping members of the Cyberspace Operations Forces, not serving in positions aligned under the Cyber Mission Force, to the extent necessary to support network management and operations;
                        
                        
                           (G)
                           views and perspectives of members of the Armed Forces in the Department of Defense, in each grade, serving in the Cyber Mission Force with experience in operational work roles (as defined by the Commander of the United States Cyber Command), and military and civilian leaders across the Department regarding the establishment of a Cyber Force;
                        
                        
                           (H)
                           the extent to which each of the other Armed Forces in the Department of Defense is formed towards, and organized around, operations within a given warfighting domain, and the potential applicability of such formation and organizing constructs to a United States Cyber Force with respect to the cyber domain;
                        
                        
                           (I)
                           findings from previous relevant assessments, analyses, and studies conducted by the Secretary, the Comptroller General of the United States, or other entities determined relevant by the National Academies on the establishment of a United States Cyber Force;
                        
                        
                           (J)
                           the organizing constructs for effective and operationally mature cyber forces of foreign countries, and the relevance of such constructs to the potential creation of a United States Cyber Force;
                        
                        
                           (K)
                           lessons learned from the creation of the United States Space Force that should be applied to the creation of a United States Cyber Force;
                        
                        
                           (L)
                           recommendations for approaches to the creation of a United States Cyber Force that would minimize disruptions to Department of Defense cyber operations;
                        
                        
                           (M)
                           the histories of the Armed Forces in the Department of Defense, including an analysis of the conditions that preceded the establishment of each new Armed Force in the Department of Defense established since 1900;
                        
                        
                           (N)
                           a comparison between the potential service secretariat leadership structures for a United States Cyber Force, including but not limited to, establishing the United States Cyber Force within an existing military department; and
                        
                        
                           (O)
                           the cumulative potential costs and effects associated with the establishment for a United States Cyber Force.
                        
                     
                     
                        (3)
                        Considerations
                        The evaluation conducted pursuant to paragraph (1) shall include an evaluation how a potential United States Cyber Force dedicated to the cyber domain would compare in performance and efficacy to the current model with respect to the following functions:
                        
                           (A)
                           Organizing, training, and equipping the size of a force necessary to satisfy existing and projected requirements of the Department of Defense.
                        
                        
                           (B)
                           Harmonizing training requirements and programs in support of cyberspace operations.
                        
                        
                           (C)
                           Recruiting and retaining qualified officers and enlisted members of the Armed Forces in the Department of Defense at the levels necessary to execute cyberspace operations.
                        
                        
                           (D)
                           Using reserve component forces in support of cyberspace operations.
                        
                        
                           (E)
                           Sustaining persistent force readiness.
                        
                        
                           (F)
                           Acquiring and providing cyber capabilities in support of cyberspace operations.
                        
                        
                           (G)
                           Establishing pay parity among members of the Armed Forces in the Department of Defense serving in and qualified for work roles in support of cyberspace operations.
                        
                        
                           (H)
                           Establishing pay parity among civilians serving in and qualified for work roles in support of cyberspace operations.
                        
                        
                           (I)
                           Establishing advancement parity for members of the Armed Forces in the Department of Defense serving in and qualified for work roles in support of cyberspace operations.
                        
                        
                           (J)
                           Establishing advancement parity for civilians serving in and qualified for work roles in support of cyberspace operations.
                        
                        
                           (K)
                           Developing professional military education content and curricula focused on the cyber domain.
                        
                        
                           (L)
                           Providing robust and unique legal support to current and future operations in the cyber domain.
                        
                        
                           (M)
                           Offering medical support to address unique psychological strains as a result of high operational tempo for cyberspace operations.
                        
                     
                     
                        (4)
                        Comparison to present model
                        The evaluation required under subsection (b) shall include an analysis and consideration of how refining and further evolving the current organizational approach for United States Cyber Command, as presently modeled on United States Special Operations Command, may serve more optimally than a United States Cyber Force relative to each of the elements identified in paragraphs (2) and (3). 
                     
                     
                        (5)
                        Unified combatant command defined
                        In this subsection, the term unified combatant command has the meaning given such term in section 161(c) of title 10, United States Code.
                     
                  
                  
                     (c)
                     Support from federally funded research and development center
                     
                        (1)
                        In general
                        Upon a request from the National Academies, the Secretary shall seek to enter into an agreement with a federally funded research and development center described in paragraph (2) under which such federally funded research and development center shall support the National Academies in conducting the evaluation under subsection (b).
                     
                     
                        (2)
                        Federally funded research and development center described
                        A federally funded research and development center described in this paragraph is a federally funded research and development center the staff of which includes subject matter experts with appropriate security clearances and expertise in— 
                        
                           (A)
                           cyber warfare;
                        
                        
                           (B)
                           personnel management;
                        
                        
                           (C)
                           military training processes; and
                        
                        
                           (D)
                           acquisition management.
                        
                     
                  
                  
                     (d)
                     Access to Department of Defense personnel, information, and resources
                     Under an agreement entered into between the Secretary and the National Academies under subsection (a)— 
                     
                        (1)
                        the Secretary shall agree to provide to the National Academies access to such personnel, information, and resources of the Department of Defense as may determined necessary by the National Academies in furtherance of the conduct of the evaluation under subsection (b); and
                     
                     
                        (2)
                        if the Secretary refuses to provide such access, or any other major obstacle to such access occurs, the National Academies shall agree to notify, not later seven days after the date of such refusal or other occurrence, the congressional defense committees.
                     
                  
                  
                     (e)
                     Report
                     
                        (1)
                        Submission to Congress
                        Under an agreement entered into between the Secretary and the National Academies under subsection (a), the National Academies, not later than 270 days after the date of the execution of the agreement, shall submit to the congressional defense committees a report containing the findings of the National Academies with respect to the evaluation under subsection (b).
                     
                     
                        (2)
                        Prohibition against interference
                        No personnel of the Department of Defense, nor any other officer or employee of the United States Government (including the executive branch of the United States Government) may interfere, exert undue influence, or in any way seek to alter the findings of the National Academies specified in paragraph (1) prior to the submission thereof under such paragraph.
                     
                     
                        (3)
                        Form
                        The report under paragraph (1) shall be submitted in an unclassified form, but may include a classified annex.
                     
                  
               
               
                  1537.
                  OVERSIGHT AND REPORTING ON THE MISSION PARTNER ENVIRONMENT AND ASSOCIATED ACTIVITIES WITHIN THE DEPARTMENT OF DEFENSE
                  
                     (a)
                     Biannual briefings
                     
                        (1)
                        In general
                        Not later than October 1, 2025, and every six months thereafter until October 1, 2030, the Deputy Secretary of Defense, the Vice Chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff, the Chief Information Officer of the Department of Defense, the head of the Information Security Risk Management Committee of the Department of Defense, the director of the Mission Partner Capability Office, the Executive Agent for the Mission Partner Environment, and a senior military service representative for each of the Armed Forces shall provide to the congressional defense committees a briefing on the Mission Partner Environment and related activities within the Department of Defense, including the modernization of the Mission Partner Environment.
                     
                     
                        (2)
                        Combatant commands
                        A senior representative from each unified combatant command shall attend and participate in each briefing required by paragraph (1).
                     
                  
                  
                     (b)
                     Elements
                     Each briefing required by subsection (a) shall include the following:
                     
                        (1)
                        A description of all efforts of the Department of Defense for the Mission Partner Environment.
                     
                     
                        (2)
                        A description of the overall progress on implementation and modernization of Mission Partner Environment across the entirety of the Department of Defense as of the date of the briefing and, for each such briefing after the first such briefing, the progress made on such implementation and modernization since the preceding briefing under such subsection.
                     
                     
                        (3)
                        An explanation of any changes in policy necessary to execute on Mission Partner Environment, including changes made during the period covered by the briefing and changes that are planned as of the time of the briefing.
                     
                     
                        (4)
                        An explanation of any changes to the governance of the Mission Partner Environment within the Department of Defense, including changes made during the period covered by the briefing and changes that are planned as of the time of the briefing.
                     
                     
                        (5)
                        A detailed programmatic table of the funding for the combined joint all-domain command and control efforts of the Office of the Secretary of Defense and the military departments, as set forth in the budget of the President most recently submitted to Congress under section 1105 of title 31, United States Code.
                     
                  
                  
                     (c)
                     Definitions
                     In this section—
                     
                        (1)
                        the terms Defense Agency and military departments have the meanings given such terms, respectively, in section 101(a) of title 10, United States Code;
                     
                     
                        (2)
                        the term Mission Partner Environment means the operating framework enabling command and control, information sharing, and the exchange of data between the Department of Defense and partners and allies of the United States participating in a military or other operation for the purposes of planning and executing such operation through the use of common standards governance and procedures, including activities the Office of the Secretary of Defense, military departments, unified combatant commands (as defined in section 161 of title 10, United States Code), and Defense Agencies relating to the operation, modernization, implementation, or oversight of, or resourcing of networks or applications designed for such framework; and
                     
                     
                        (3)
                        the term unified combatant command has the meaning given such term in section 161 of title 10, United States Code.
                     
                  
               
               
                  1538.
                  DEPARTMENT OF DEFENSE USE OF LARGE LANGUAGE MODELS
                  
                     (a)
                     In general
                     The Secretary of Defense, acting through the Chief Data and Artificial Intelligence Officer of the Department of Defense, shall coordinate and accelerate the adoption of large language models by the Department of Defense by improving the access and quality of the existing structured and unstructured data of the Department to ensure such data is immediately ready to use in conjunction with machine learning applications being developed, tested, or in production by the Armed Forces.
                  
                  
                     (b)
                     Duties of Chief Data and Artificial Intelligence Officer
                     The Chief Data and Artificial Intelligence Officer shall–—
                     
                        (1)
                        develop a list of large language model use cases for defense and intelligence applications, including cases that have the potential to support personnel and manpower, operations, intelligence, logistics, strategic planning, command and control, joint force development, and force structure, transform business processes, and improve non-mission capable rates;
                     
                     
                        (2)
                        develop and make available to the Secretary tooling to ingest and transform natural language, and other types of unstructured data, into formats compatible with commercially available large language models; and
                     
                     
                        (3)
                        provide access to capabilities, such as data preparation, for elements within the Department of Defense that are necessary for use with large language models.
                     
                  
                  
                     (c)
                     Contracting Authorities And Limitations
                     
                        (1)
                        In general
                        The Chief Data and Artificial Intelligence Officer may enter into contracts with private-sector entities, as appropriate, to carry out the requirements of subsection (b)(2).
                     
                     
                        (2)
                        Limitation
                        The Chief Data and Artificial Intelligence Officer may coordinate with other elements of the Department of Defense with contracting authority as required to carry out the duties described in subsection (b).
                     
                  
                  
                     (d)
                     Semiannual Briefings
                     Not later than 120 days after the date of the enactment of this Act and not less frequently than semiannually thereafter, the Chief Data and Artificial Intelligence Officer shall provide to the congressional defense committees a briefing on the implementation of this section.
                  
               
               
                  1539.
                  REPORT ON STATE NATIONAL GUARD CYBER UNITS
                  The Secretary of Defense shall submit to the congressional defense committees a report on the feasibility of establishing a cyber unit in every National Guard of a State to ensure the ability of a State to quickly respond to cyber-attacks in such State.
               
               
                  1540.
                  REPORT ON USER ACTIVITY MONITORING PROGRAMS OF THE DEPARTMENT OF DEFENSE
                  Not later than 90 days after the date of the enactment of this Act, the Secretary of Defense shall submit to the congressional defense committees a report on user activity monitoring programs of the Department of Defense. The report shall include—
                  
                     (1)
                     a description of the implementation and enforcement of the requirements of section 1537 of the National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2024 (10 U.S.C. 2224 note; Public Law 118–31; 137 Stat. 570);
                  
                  
                     (2)
                     a detailed description of the status of user activity monitoring on the Non-classified Internet Protocol Router Network;
                  
                  
                     (3)
                     a comprehensive accounting of the funds made available funds made available for user activity monitoring on the Non-classified Internet Protocol Router Network in fiscal years 2022, 2023, and 2024; and
                  
                  
                     (4)
                     information on how any such user activity monitoring programs might deviate from the minimum standards outlined in—
                     
                        (A)
                        the National Insider Threat Policy and Minimum Standards for Executive Branch Insider Threat Programs;
                     
                     
                        (B)
                        the Committee on National Security Systems Directive 504 (issued on February 4, 2014, relating to the protection of national security systems from insider threats); or
                     
                     
                        (C)
                        the Department of Defense Directive 5205.16 (issued on September 30, 2014, relating to the insider threat program of the Department of Defense).
                     
                  
               
            
         
         
            XVI
            SPACE ACTIVITIES, STRATEGIC PROGRAMS, AND INTELLIGENCE MATTERS
            
               A
               Space Activities
               
                  1601. 
                  AUTHORITY TO BUILD CAPACITY FOR SPACE DOMAIN AWARENESS AND SPACE OPERATIONS
                  Section 333(a) of title 10, United States Code, is amended by adding at the end the following new paragraph:
                  
                     
                        (10)
                        Space domain awareness and defensive space operations.
                     
                     .
                  
               
               
                  1602.
                  ESTABLISHMENT OF THE COMMERCIAL AUGMENTATION SPACE RESERVE
                  
                     (a)
                     In general
                     
                        Chapter 963 of title 10, United States Code, is amended by inserting before section 9532 the following new section:
                     
                        
                           9531.
                           COMMERCIAL AUGMENTATION SPACE RESERVE.
                           
                              (a)
                              In general
                              The Secretary of Defense may establish and carry out a program to be known as the Commercial Augmentation Space Reserve program. Under the program, the Secretary may include in a contract for the procurement of space products or services one or more provisions under which a qualified contractor agrees to provide additional space products or services to the Department of Defense on an as-needed basis under circumstances determined by the Secretary.
                           
                           
                              (b)
                              Authority to contract
                              Subject to subsection (c), and the extent that funds are otherwise available for obligation, the Secretary may contract with any qualified contractor for space products or services in support of the Commercial Augmentation Space Reserve Program as described in subsection (a).
                           
                           
                              (c)
                              Security measures
                              In carrying out the program under subsection (a), the Secretary shall—
                              
                                 (1)
                                 ensure that each contract under, and qualified contractor participating in, the program complies with an applicable security measures, including any security measures required under the National Industrial Security program (or any successor to such program); and
                              
                              
                                 (2)
                                 may establish and implement such additional security measures as the Secretary considers appropriate to protect the national security interests of the United States.
                              
                           
                           
                              (d)
                              Commitment of space products or services as a business factor
                              The Secretary may, in determining the quantity of business to be received under a space product or services contract under subsection (a), use as a factor the relative amount of space product or service committed to the Commercial Augmentation Space Reserve by the qualified contractor involved.
                           
                           
                              (e)
                              Waiver of certain provisions of law
                              In a time of war or national emergency, the Secretary may waive the requirements of chapter 271 of this title or the provisions of subsections (a) and (b) of section 1502 of title 41 with respect to a contract under subsection (a).
                           
                           
                              (f)
                              Definitions
                              In this section:
                              
                                 (1)
                                 The term space products or services means commercial products and commercial services (as those terms are defined in section 2.101 of the Federal Acquisition Regulation) and noncommercial products and noncommercial services offered by commercial companies that operate to, through, or from space, including any required terrestrial ground, support, and network systems and associated services that can be used to support military functions and missions.
                              
                              
                                 (2)
                                 The term citizen of the United States means—
                                 
                                    (A)
                                    an individual who is a citizen of the United States;
                                 
                                 
                                    (B)
                                    a partnership each of whose partners is an individual who is citizen of the United States; or
                                 
                                 
                                    (C)
                                    a corporation or association organized under the laws of the United States or a State, the District of Columbia, or a territory or possession of the United States.
                                 
                              
                              
                                 (3)
                                 The term qualified contractor means a contractor that is a citizen of the United States.
                              
                              
                                 (4)
                                 The term Secretary means the Secretary of Defense.
                              
                           
                        
                        .
                     
                  
                  
                     (b)
                     Study and report
                     
                        (1)
                        Study
                        The Secretary of the Air Force, in coordination with the Secretary of Defense, shall seek to enter into an agreement with a federally funded research and development center to conduct a study on—
                        
                           (A)
                           the availability and adequacy of commercial insurance to protect the financial interests of contractors providing support services to space-related operations and activities of the Department of Defense, taking into account the risks that may be anticipated to arise from such support;
                        
                        
                           (B)
                           the adequacy of any existing authorities under Federal law that would enable the Federal Government to protect such interests in the event commercial space insurance is not available or not available on reasonable terms; and
                        
                        
                           (C)
                           potential options for Government-provided insurance similar to existing aviation and maritime insurance programs under titles 49 and 46 of the United States Code, respectively.
                        
                     
                     
                        (2)
                        Report
                        Not later than one year after the date of the enactment of this Act, the Secretary of the Air Force shall submit to the congressional defense committees a report on the results of the study conducted under paragraph (1).
                     
                  
               
               
                  1603.
                  MODIFICATIONS TO NATIONAL SECURITY SPACE LAUNCH PROGRAM
                  
                     (a)
                     Extension of policy on contracts for launch services
                     Section 1601 of the National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2022 (Public Law 117–81; 10 U.S.C. 2276 note) is amended—
                     
                        (1)
                        in subsection (b), by striking 2024 and inserting 2029; and
                     
                     
                        (2)
                        in subsection (c), by striking phase two contracts and inserting the National Security Space Launch program.
                     
                  
                  
                     (b)
                     Notification of changes in phase three acquisition strategy
                     Not later than seven days before implementing any modification to the final phase three acquisition strategy under the National Security Space Launch program, the Assistant Secretary of the Air Force for Space Acquisition and Integration shall submit to the appropriate congressional committees notice of the proposed modification together with an explanation of the reasons for such modification.
                  
                  
                     (c)
                     Definitions
                     In this section:
                     
                        (1)
                        The term appropriate congressional committees means—
                        
                           (A)
                           the congressional defense committees; and
                        
                        
                           (B)
                           the congressional intelligence committees (as defined in section 3 of the National Security Act of 1947 (50 U.S.C. 3003)).
                        
                     
                     
                        (2)
                        The term final phase three acquisition strategy means the acquisition strategy for phase three of the National Security Space Launch program, as approved by the Assistant Secretary of the Air Force for Space Acquisition and Integration on March 4, 2024.
                     
                     
                        (3)
                        The term phase three has the meaning given that term in section 1601(e) of the National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2022 (Public Law 118–71; 10 U.S.C. 2276 note).
                     
                  
               
               
                  1604.
                  MODIFICATIONS TO SPACE CONTRACTOR RESPONSIBILITY WATCH LIST
                  Section 1612 of the National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2018 (Public Law 115–91; 10 U.S.C. 2271 note) is amended—
                  
                     (1)
                     in the section heading, by striking 
                           Air Force
                        ;
                  
                  
                     (2)
                     in subsection (a)—
                     
                        (A)
                        by striking Commander of the Air Force Space and Missile Systems Center and inserting Assistant Secretary of the Air Force for Space Acquisition and Integration; and
                     
                     
                        (B)
                        by striking contracts each place it appears and inserting transactions; 
                     
                  
                  
                     (3)
                     in subsection (b)—
                     
                        (A)
                        in paragraph (1)—
                        
                           (i)
                           by striking Commander and inserting Assistant Secretary; and
                        
                        
                           (ii)
                           by striking a contract and inserting under a transaction; 
                        
                     
                     
                        (B)
                        in paragraph (2)—
                        
                           (i)
                           in the paragraph heading, by striking 
                                 Commander
                               and inserting 
                                 Assistant Secretary
                              ; and
                        
                        
                           (ii)
                           by striking Commander and inserting Assistant Secretary;
                        
                     
                  
                  
                     (4)
                     in subsection (c)—
                     
                        (A)
                        by striking Commander each place it appears and inserting Assistant Secretary;
                     
                     
                        (B)
                        in paragraph (1)—
                        
                           (i)
                           in the paragraph heading, by striking 
                                 contracts
                               and inserting 
                                 contractors
                              ;
                        
                        
                           (ii)
                           by striking award a contract to and inserting enter into a transaction with; and
                        
                        
                           (iii)
                           by striking Air Force and inserting Space Force; and
                        
                     
                     
                        (C)
                        in paragraph (2)—
                        
                           (i)
                           by striking a contract and inserting a transaction;
                        
                        
                           (ii)
                           by striking prime contract value and inserting overall value of the transaction; and
                        
                        
                           (iii)
                           by striking Air Force Space and Missile Systems Center and inserting Space Force;
                        
                     
                  
                  
                     (5)
                     in subsection (d), by striking Commander and inserting Assistant Secretary; and
                  
                  
                     (6)
                     by adding at the end the following new subsection:
                     
                        
                           (f)
                           Definitions
                           In this section:
                           
                              (1)
                              The term contractor means any individual or entity that enters into a transaction.
                           
                           
                              (2)
                              The term transaction means a contract, grant, cooperative agreement, or other transaction.
                           
                        
                        .
                     
                  
               
               
                  1605.
                  ANNUAL BRIEFING ON COMMERCIAL SPACE STRATEGY OF THE SPACE FORCE
                  
                     (a)
                     Findings
                     Congress finds that the strategy of the Space Force titled U.S. Space Force Commercial Space Strategy published in April 2024, indicates that the Space Force intends to focus future efforts and resources on the following mission areas:
                     
                        (1)
                        Satellite communications.
                     
                     
                        (2)
                        Space domain awareness.
                     
                     
                        (3)
                        Space access mobility and logistics.
                     
                     
                        (4)
                        Tactical surveillance, reconnaissance, and tracking.
                     
                     
                        (5)
                        Space based environmental monitoring.
                     
                     
                        (6)
                        Cyberspace operations.
                     
                     
                        (7)
                        Command and control.
                     
                     
                        (8)
                        Positioning, navigation, and timing.
                     
                  
                  
                     (b)
                     Sense of Congress
                     It is the sense of Congress that—
                     
                        (1)
                        the Space Force should continue to pursue partnerships with the commercial space industry of the United States to create a true hybrid architecture that provides increased capabilities and resilience;
                     
                     
                        (2)
                        in assessing the potential use of commercial solutions to support space domain awareness, the Chief of Space Operations should consider—
                        
                           (A)
                           conducting—
                           
                              (i)
                              dynamic rendezvous and proximity operations, cooperative and noncooperative non-earth imaging, and noncooperative rendezvous and proximity operations with resident space objects; and
                           
                           
                              (ii)
                              routine characterization, anomaly-resolution, and broad metric observations of resident space objects;
                           
                        
                        
                           (B)
                           entering into long term purchase arrangements for data and services to support space domain awareness; and
                        
                        
                           (C)
                           functionally supporting an enterprise architecture for space command and control and space domain awareness;
                        
                     
                     
                        (3)
                        in developing and fulfilling requirements relating to space access mobility and logistics, the Chief of Space Operations should consider the use of commercial solutions such as—
                        
                           (A)
                           geostationary commercial services for life extension, refueling, and end of life mission disposal;
                        
                        
                           (B)
                           orbital sustainment and mission extension capabilities;
                        
                        
                           (C)
                           maneuver services for unprepared clients in geostationary earth orbit; and
                        
                        
                           (D)
                           nontraditional concepts for dynamic space operations like electromechanical acceleration platforms; and
                        
                     
                     
                        (4)
                        the Chief of Space Operations and the Assistant Secretary of the Air Force for Space Acquisition and Integration should continue to engage with the congressional defense committees on any changes to acquisition authorities that are needed to better integrate commercial space capabilities within existing and future Government architectures.
                     
                  
                  
                     (c)
                     Briefing required
                     
                        (1)
                        In general
                        Not later than 10 days after the date on which the budget of the President for each of fiscal years 2026 through 2029 is submitted to Congress pursuant to section 1105 of title 31, United States Code, the Chief of Space Operations, in coordination with Assistant Secretary of the Air Force for Space Acquisition and Integration, shall provide to the congressional defense committees a briefing that includes the information described in paragraph (2) with respect to each mission area specified in subsection (a).
                     
                     
                        (2)
                        Elements
                        Each briefing under paragraph (1) shall include, with respect to each mission area specified in subsection (a) for the fiscal year concerned, the following:
                        
                           (A)
                           Of the funds requested for the mission area, the percentage that are expected to be used to fulfill requirements through the provision of commercial solutions compared to the percentage that are expected to be used to fulfill such requirements through programs of record.
                        
                        
                           (B)
                           A description of the requirements for each mission area and an explanation of whether and how the use of commercial solutions has been considered for fulfilling such requirements.
                        
                        
                           (C)
                           A description of any training or wargaming exercises that are expected to integrate commercial solutions and include the participation of providers of such solutions.
                        
                        
                           (D)
                           Any force designs of the Space Warfighting Analysis Center for which commercial solutions were considered as part of a force design analysis from the previous fiscal year.
                        
                        
                           (E)
                           An update on the status of any efforts to integrate commercial systems into respective Government architecture.
                        
                        
                           (F)
                           With respect to the contracts entered into to support the mission area—
                           
                              (i)
                              the number of such contracts;
                           
                           
                              (ii)
                              the types of contracts used;
                           
                           
                              (iii)
                              the length of time covered by such contracts; and 
                           
                           
                              (iv)
                              the amount of funds committed under such contracts.
                           
                        
                     
                  
                  
                     (d)
                     Commercial solutions defined
                     In this section, the term commercial solutions includes commercial products, commercial services, and providers of such products and services.
                  
               
               
                  1606.
                  PILOT PROGRAM TO DEMONSTRATE HYBRID SPACE ARCHITECTURE
                  
                     (a)
                     Sense of Congress
                     It is the sense of Congress that—
                     
                        (1)
                        efforts that leverage commercial space systems, space systems of the United States Government, and Government space systems of allies and partners of the United States, enhance resiliency and capabilities for data and communications paths for global national security and allied operations;
                     
                     
                        (2)
                        hybrid space architectures that leverage a mixture of the space assets described in paragraph (1) with dynamic operations across multiple constellations are critical to modern warfighting and implementing new warfighting concepts like joint all-domain command and control;
                     
                     
                        (3)
                        the integration of space and ground infrastructure across secure cloud computing platforms to collect, move, and process data are critical first steps to establishing the foundation necessary to manage and control this future hybrid space architecture;
                     
                     
                        (4)
                        efforts that are ongoing within the Defense Innovation Unit and the Space Force are important and foundational to both inform and align with other key Department of Defense-wide initiatives; and
                     
                     
                        (5)
                        alignment and integration with broader efforts across the Department is essential.
                     
                  
                  
                     (b)
                     Program required
                     Beginning in fiscal year 2025, the Commander of the Space Systems Command of the Space Force shall carry out a pilot program to demonstrate a hybrid space architecture.
                  
                  
                     (c)
                     Requirements and considerations
                     In carrying out the pilot program under subsection (b), the Commander the Space Systems Command shall include in the hybrid space architecture at least one military satellite communications system, such as the Wideband Global Satcom system or the Micro Geostationary Earth Orbit system.
                  
                  
                     (d)
                     Briefing
                     Not later than 180 days after the date of the enactment of this Act, the Assistant Secretary of the Air Force for Space Acquisition and Integration shall provide to the congressional defense committees a briefing that includes—
                     
                        (1)
                        a description of the hybrid space architecture developed under the pilot program under subsection (b) and a summary of the results of the program as of the date of the briefing; and
                     
                     
                        (2)
                        a plan for supporting the transition of the hybrid space architecture efforts to a program of record within the Space Force and the Space Systems Command.
                     
                  
                  
                     (e)
                     Hybrid space architecture
                     The term hybrid space architecture means network of integrated United States Government, allied Government, and commercially owned and operated capabilities both for on-orbit constellations and ground systems.
                  
               
               
                  1607.
                  MIDDLE EAST INTEGRATED SPACE AND SATELLITE SECURITY ASSESSMENT
                  
                     (a)
                     Assessment
                     
                        (1)
                        In general
                        The Secretary of Defense, in consultation with the Secretary of State, shall conduct an assessment of space and satellite security for the purpose of identifying mechanisms, such as improved multilateral data sharing agreements, that may be implemented to better protect ally and partner countries in the area of responsibility of the United States Central Command from hostile activities conducted by adversaries against space systems of the United States or such countries.
                     
                     
                        (2)
                        Matters to be included
                        The assessment required by paragraph (1) shall include the following:
                        
                           (A)
                           An assessment of the threats posed to the United States and ally or partner countries in the area of responsibility of the United States Central Command by adversaries, including Iran and its proxies, from conducting hostile activities—
                           
                              (i)
                              against space systems of the United States or such countries; and
                           
                           
                              (ii)
                              using capabilities originating from the space domain.
                           
                        
                        
                           (B)
                           A description of progress made in—
                           
                              (i)
                              advancing the integration of countries in the area of responsibility of the United States Central Command, including Israel, into existing multilateral space and satellite security partnerships; and
                           
                           
                              (ii)
                              establishing such partnerships with such countries.
                           
                        
                        
                           (C)
                           A description of efforts among ally and partner countries in the area of responsibility of the United States Central Command to coordinate intelligence, reconnaissance, and surveillance capabilities and indicators and warnings with respect to the threats described in subparagraph (A), and a description of factors limiting the effectiveness of such efforts.
                        
                        
                           (D)
                           An assessment of current gaps in the ability of the Department of Defense to provide space situational awareness for allies and partners in the area of responsibility of the United States Central Command.
                        
                        
                           (E)
                           A description of multilateral space situational awareness data-sharing agreements and an integrated space and satellite security architecture that would improve collective security in the area of responsibility of the United States Central Command.
                        
                        
                           (F)
                           A description of current and planned efforts to engage ally and partner countries in the area of responsibility of the United States Central Command in establishing such a multilateral space situational awareness data-sharing agreement and an integrated space and satellite security architecture.
                        
                        
                           (G)
                           A description of key challenges in achieving integrated space and satellite security described in paragraph (1) using the metrics identified in accordance with paragraph (3).
                        
                        
                           (H)
                           Recommendations for development and the implementation of an integrated space and satellite security strategy based on such metrics.
                        
                        
                           (I)
                           A cost estimate of establishing an integrated space and satellite security strategy, and an assessment of the resources that could be contributed by ally and partner countries of the United States to establish and strengthen such capabilities.
                        
                        
                           (J)
                           Other matters the Secretary of Defense considers relevant.
                        
                     
                     
                        (3)
                        Metrics
                        The Secretary of Defense shall identify and propose metrics to assess progress in the implementation of the assessment required by paragraph (1).
                     
                  
                  
                     (b)
                     Report
                     
                        (1)
                        In general
                        Not later than one year after the date of the enactment of this Act, the Secretary of Defense shall submit to the appropriate committees of Congress a report on the results of the assessment conducted under subsection (a).
                     
                     
                        (2)
                        Form of report
                        The report required by paragraph (1) shall be submitted in unclassified form but may include a classified annex.
                     
                  
                  
                     (c)
                     Protection of sensitive information
                     Any activity carried out under this section shall be conducted in a manner that appropriately protects sensitive information and the national security interests of the United States.
                  
                  
                     (d)
                     Appropriate committees of Congress defined
                     In this section, the term appropriate committees of Congress means—
                     
                        (1)
                        the Committee on Armed Services, the Committee on Appropriations, and the Committee on Foreign Relations of the Senate; and
                     
                     
                        (2)
                        the Committee on Armed Services, the Committee on Appropriations, and the Committee on Foreign Affairs of the House of Representatives.
                     
                  
               
               
                  1608.
                  PLAN FOR IMPROVEMENT OF SPACE FORCE SATELLITE CONTROL NETWORK
                  
                     (a)
                     Plan required
                     The Chief of Space Operations, in coordination with the Assistant Secretary of the Air Force for Space Acquisition and Integration, shall prepare a comprehensive plan for modernizing the satellite control network of the Space Force. The plan shall include—
                     
                        (1)
                        the actions and resources needed to modernize and sustain a resilient, multi-mission, multi-orbit satellite control network for the Space Force;
                     
                     
                        (2)
                        life-cycle sustainment measures that include technical refresh efforts to enable dynamic space operations;
                     
                     
                        (3)
                        assessments of current and planned architectural hardware capabilities, across the range of classification levels, and an explanation of how such capabilities are expected to be addressed in future budget requests;
                     
                     
                        (4)
                        plans for incorporating commercial capabilities into the network, as appropriate; and
                     
                     
                        (5)
                        mechanisms through which the Space Force may use existing funding to accelerate the rapid adoption of capabilities and life-cycle sustainment efforts to quickly modernize the satellite control network.
                     
                  
                  
                     (b)
                     Final report
                     Following completion of the plan under subsection (a), the Chief of Space Operations shall submit to the Committees on Armed Services of the Senate and the House of Representatives a report that contains the plan.
                  
                  
                     (c)
                     Quarterly progress briefings
                     Not later than 90 days after the date of the enactment of this Act, and on a quarterly basis thereafter until the date on which the report is submitted under subsection (b), the Chief of Space Operations shall provide to the Committees on Armed Services of the Senate and the House of Representatives a briefing on the status of the development of the plan under subsection (a). 
                  
               
               
                  1609.
                  BRIEFING ON SPACE-RELATED WAVEFORM AND DATALINK CAPABILITIES
                  
                     (a)
                     Sense of Congress
                     It is the sense of Congress that—
                     
                        (1)
                        procurement of resilient waveform and datalink capabilities is crucial to fielding operationally relevant and interoperable architectures; and
                     
                     
                        (2)
                        the Secretary of Defense should take such actions as are necessary to ensure that all covered communications and datalink waveforms purchased or authorized for use in, from, or to Space, effectively operate on at least two different hardware network architectures, including field programable gate arrays and central processing units.
                     
                  
                  
                     (b)
                     Briefing
                     Not later than 60 days after the date of the enactment of this Act, the Chief of Space Operations and the Assistant Secretary of the Air Force for Space Acquisition and Integration shall jointly provide to the Committees on Armed Services of the Senate and the House of Representatives a briefing on a plan to resource and enable an architecture to connect, with operationally relevant interoperability, the following:
                     
                        (1)
                        Communication architectures of the Space Force, including the Space Development Agency Proliferated Warfighter Space Architecture and the United States Space Force Satellite Control Network.
                     
                     
                        (2)
                        Protected tactical enterprise services of the United States.
                     
                     
                        (3)
                        Evolved strategic satellite communications.
                     
                     
                        (4)
                        Narrowband satellite communications.
                     
                     
                        (5)
                        Wideband satellite communications.
                     
                     
                        (6)
                        Such other systems as the Chief and Assistant Secretary determine appropriate.
                     
                  
               
               
                  1609A.
                  REPORT ON CAPABILITIES IN CISLUNAR SPACE
                  
                     (a)
                     Sense of Congress
                     It is the sense of Congress that there is a need for comprehensive cislunar space domain awareness capabilities to ensure the safety of flight of civil and commercial missions in cislunar space.
                  
                  
                     (b)
                     Report
                     Not later than 180 days after the date of the enactment of this Act, the Chief of Space Operations shall submit to the congressional defense committees a report that includes a description of—
                     
                        (1)
                        requirements for cislunar space domain awareness capabilities;
                     
                     
                        (2)
                        the plan of Department of Defense for researching and developing technologies for cislunar space domain awareness; and
                     
                     
                        (3)
                        the progress of the Department in coordinating with the Cislunar Technology Strategy Interagency Working Group to achieve the objectives set forth in the publication of the Working Group titled National Cislunar Science and Technology Strategy and dated November 2022.
                     
                  
               
               
                  1609B.
                  SENSE OF CONGRESS ON THE DEVELOPMENT OF VERY LOW EARTH ORBIT SPACECRAFT
                  It is the sense of Congress that—
                  
                     (1)
                     the Space Force has demonstrated its commitment to building a resilient, safe, and secure space architecture and incorporating transformational commercially developed space technologies in order to accelerate the fielding of capabilities, including in very low earth orbit;
                  
                  
                     (2)
                     advancements in propulsion systems, materials science, affordable launch costs, and orbital management techniques have opened up new possibilities for utilizing very low earth orbit for various purposes, including ultra-high-resolution reconnaissance, low latency communication, and improved space domain awareness;
                  
                  
                     (3)
                     Congress and the Department of Defense should continue to pursue the efforts described in paragraph (1) in support of the National Defense Strategy and the Commercial Space Strategy of the Space Force to accelerate the purposeful pursuit of hybrid space architectures; and
                  
                  
                     (4)
                     the Space Force should continue to scale up those efforts and further explore the benefits of very low earth orbit spacecraft development to improve responsiveness, enhance image resolution, generate orbital diversity, and increase resilience against space debris and other threats.
                  
               
               
                  1609C.
                  REPORT ON SPACE FORCE USE OF NUCLEAR THERMAL PROPULSION AND NUCLEAR ELECTRIC PROPULSION SPACE VEHICLES
                  The Chief of the Space Force shall submit to Congress a report on the use by the Space Force of nuclear thermal propulsion and nuclear electric propulsion space vehicles. Such report shall include—
                  
                     (1)
                     a description of how the Space Force uses such vehicles;
                  
                  
                     (2)
                     a description of how the Space Force plans to use such vehicles in the future; and
                  
                  
                     (3)
                     an identification of any potential benefits that such vehicles can provide to bolster the national security of the United States.
                  
               
            
            
               B
               Defense Intelligence and Intelligence-Related Activities
               
                  1611.
                  EXTENSION AND MODIFICATION OF AUTHORITY TO ENGAGE IN CERTAIN COMMERCIAL ACTIVITIES AS SECURITY FOR INTELLIGENCE COLLECTION ACTIVITIES
                  Section 431 of title 10, United States Code, is amended—
                  
                     (1)
                     in subsection (a), by striking December 31, 2024 and inserting December 31, 2027; and
                  
                  
                     (2)
                     in subsection (b), by amending paragraph (1) to read as follows:
                     
                        
                           (1)
                           
                              (A)
                              be pre-coordinated with the Director of the Central Intelligence Agency using procedures mutually agreed upon by the Secretary of Defense and the Director; and
                           
                           
                              (B)
                              where appropriate, be supported by the Director; and
                           
                        
                        .
                     
                  
               
               
                  1612.
                  EXPANSION OF AUTHORITY TO EXECUTE WARRANTS AND MAKE ARRESTS TO SPECIAL AGENTS OF ARMY COUNTERINTELLIGENCE COMMAND
                  Section 7377 of title 10, United States Code, is amended—
                  
                     (1)
                     in the heading, by inserting 
                           and Counterintelligence Command
                         after 
                           Criminal Investigation Command
                        ; and
                  
                  
                     (2)
                     in subsection (b), by striking who is a special agent and all that follows through the end of the subsection and inserting the following:
                     
                        who is—
                        
                           (1)
                           a special agent of the Army Criminal Investigation Command (or a successor to that command) whose duties include conducting, supervising, or coordinating investigations of criminal activity in programs and operations of the Department of the Army; or
                        
                        
                           (2)
                           a special agent of the Army Counterintelligence Command (or a successor to that command) whose duties include conducting, supervising, or coordinating counterintelligence investigations in programs and operations of the Department of the Army. 
                        
                        .
                     
                  
               
               
                  1613.
                  SENSITIVE COMPARTMENTED INFORMATION FACILITY ACCREDITATION
                  
                     (a)
                     In general
                     The Under Secretary of Defense for Intelligence and Security shall, not later than December 31, 2029—
                     
                        (1)
                        assign responsibility to the Defense Counterintelligence and Security Agency for the accreditation of sensitive compartmented information facilities for all components of the Department of Defense, including the military departments, except with respect to the National Security Agency, the National Reconnaissance Office, and the National Geospatial-Intelligence Agency; and
                     
                     
                        (2)
                        ensure that the Defense Counterintelligence and Security Agency has the appropriate staff to successfully carry out such responsibility.
                     
                  
                  
                     (b)
                     Notification with respect to resource requirements
                     The Under Secretary of Defense for Intelligence and Security shall notify the congressional intelligence committees and the congressional defense committees with respect to the resource requirements for the Defense Counterintelligence and Security Agency to carry out the accreditation responsibility under subsection (a).
                  
                  
                     (c)
                     Submission of report to Congress
                     The Under Secretary of Defense for Intelligence and Security shall, in consultation with the Director of the National Security Agency, the Director of the National Reconnaissance Office, and the Director of the National Geospatial-Intelligence Agency, submit to the congressional intelligence committees and the Committees on Armed Services of the House of Representatives and the Senate a report not later than December 31, 2027, on the feasibility of the Defense Counterintelligence and Security Agency assuming accreditation responsibility with respect to sensitive compartmented information facilities for the National Security Agency, the National Reconnaissance Office, and the National Geospatial-Intelligence Agency by December 31, 2029.
                  
                  
                     (d)
                     Congressional intelligence committees defined
                     In this section, the term congressional intelligence committees has the meaning given such term in section 3 of the National Security Act of 1947 (50 U.S.C. 3003).
                  
               
            
            
               C
               Nuclear Forces
               
                  1621.
                  MODIFICATION OF REQUIREMENTS AND AUTHORITIES RELATING TO THE NUCLEAR-ARMED, SEA-LAUNCHED CRUISE MISSILE
                  
                     (a)
                     FY23 NDAA
                     Section 1642(c) of the National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2023 (Public Law 117–263; 136 Stat. 2945) is amended by striking W80-4 warhead each place it appears and inserting, W80–4 ALT warhead (or an alternative warhead). 
                  
                  
                     (b)
                     FY24 NDAA
                     Section 1640 of the National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2024 (Public Law 118–31; 137 Stat. 595) is amended—
                     
                        (1)
                        in subsection (a)—
                        
                           (A)
                           in paragraph (3), by striking nuclear weapon project for the W80–4 ALT warhead and inserting nuclear weapon system project with the W80–4 ALT warhead (or an alternative warhead in accordance subsection (e));
                        
                        
                           (B)
                           in paragraph (4), by striking W80–4 ALT warhead; and inserting nuclear weapon system; and
                        
                        
                           (C)
                           in paragraph (5), by striking the W80–4 ALT nuclear weapon project and inserting such nuclear weapon system project;
                        
                     
                     
                        (2)
                        in subsection (c), by striking W80–4 ALT project and inserting nuclear weapon system project described in subsection (a)(3);
                     
                     
                        (3)
                        by redesignating subsections (e) through (g) as subsections (f) through (h); and
                     
                     
                        (4)
                        by inserting after subsection (d) the following new subsection:
                        
                           
                              (e)
                              Selection of a nuclear weapon system with an alternative warhead
                              
                                 (1)
                                 Briefing and waiting period
                                 For purposes of subsection (a)(3), the Secretary of Defense may carry out a nuclear weapons system project with an alternative warhead to the W80–4 ALT warhead, if—
                                 
                                    (A)
                                    the Secretary submits to the congressional defense committees a briefing that includes—
                                    
                                       (i)
                                       a description of the alternative warhead to be developed under the project;
                                    
                                    
                                       (ii)
                                       an estimate and description of the balance among the costs, schedule, and programmatic impacts for the research, development, and production of such alternative warhead;
                                    
                                    
                                       (iii)
                                       an explanation of the reasons the Secretary intends to develop a nuclear weapon system with such alternative warhead instead of—
                                       
                                          (I)
                                          the W80–4 ALT warhead; or
                                       
                                       
                                          (II)
                                          any other warhead options that may have been considered;
                                       
                                    
                                    
                                       (iv)
                                       a written certification from the Secretary that the nuclear weapon system with the alternative warhead is expected—
                                       
                                          (I)
                                          to more favorably balance cost, schedule, and programmatic impacts than the nuclear weapons system with the W80–4 ALT warhead;
                                       
                                       
                                          (II)
                                          to enable the nuclear armed, sea-launched cruise missile to achieve initial operational capability faster than directed by subsection (b); and
                                       
                                       
                                          (III)
                                          to enable a more military effective nuclear armed, sea-launched cruise missile than would otherwise be achievable using the W80-4 ALT warhead; and
                                       
                                    
                                 
                                 
                                    (B)
                                    a period of 45 days has elapsed following the date on which such briefing was submitted.
                                 
                              
                              
                                 (2)
                                 Form of briefing
                                 The briefing under paragraph (1)(A) may be submitted in classified form.
                              
                           
                           .
                        
                     
                  
               
               
                  1622.
                  LONG-TERM PLAN FOR STRATEGIC NUCLEAR FORCES DURING DELIVERY VEHICLE TRANSITION
                  
                     (a)
                     Plan required
                     Not later than one year after the date of the enactment of this Act and biennially thereafter through 2031, the Commander of the United States Strategic Command shall submit to the congressional defense committees a plan for deployed strategic nuclear warheads over the covered period, during which changes are expected to be made to strategic delivery systems.
                  
                  
                     (b)
                     Elements
                     Each plan under subsection (a) shall include the following:
                     
                        (1)
                        A baseline strategy for maintaining a minimum of 1,550 nuclear warheads deployed on land-based intercontinental ballistic missiles, submarine-launched intercontinental ballistic missiles, and counted for deployed heavy bombers (as defined under the New START Treaty) during the covered period.
                     
                     
                        (2)
                        For each year of the covered period, an estimate of the number of available strategic delivery systems, by type, and the number of deployed warheads associated with such systems.
                     
                     
                        (3)
                        A summary of operational considerations, including, as necessary, the identification of areas in which greater risk is being accepted.
                     
                     
                        (4)
                        A description of contingency plans in the event of reduced strategic delivery system availability due to programmatic delays, aging, or other such factors.
                     
                     
                        (5)
                        A review of the importance and impact of nuclear risk and reduction arms control.
                     
                     
                        (6)
                        Any other matters the Commander of the United States Strategic Command determines appropriate for inclusion in the plan.
                     
                  
                  
                     (c)
                     Coordination
                     In preparing each plan required under this section, the Commander of the United States Strategic Command shall coordinate with—
                     
                        (1)
                        the Under Secretary of Defense for Acquisition and Sustainment;
                     
                     
                        (2)
                        the Under Secretary of Defense for Policy; and
                     
                     
                        (3)
                        the Vice Chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff.
                     
                  
                  
                     (d)
                     Definitions
                     
                        (1)
                        The term covered period means the period beginning on January 1, 2028, and ending on January 1, 2036.
                     
                     
                        (2)
                        The term New START Treaty means the Treaty between the United States of America and the Russian Federation on Measures for the Further Reduction and Limitation of Strategic Offensive Arms, signed on April 8, 2010, and entered into force on February 5, 2011.
                     
                     
                        (3)
                        The term strategic delivery system means land-based intercontinental ballistic missiles, submarine-launched intercontinental ballistic missiles, long range air-launched cruise missiles, and nuclear-capable heavy bomber aircraft.
                     
                  
               
               
                  1623.
                  LIMITATIONS ON USE OF FUNDS TO DISMANTLE B83–1 NUCLEAR GRAVITY BOMB
                  
                     (a)
                     Limitation on travel expenses
                     Of the funds authorized to be appropriated by this Act or otherwise made available for fiscal year 2025 for operation and maintenance, Defense-wide, and available for the Office of the Under Secretary of Defense for Research and Engineering for travel expenses, not more than 80 percent may be obligated or expended until the Secretary of Defense submits to the congressional defense committees the proposed strategy required by paragraph (3) of subsection (b) of section 1674 of the James M. Inhofe National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2023 (Public Law 117–263).
                  
                  
                     (b)
                     Limitation on use to dismantle
                     Except as provided in subsection (c), none of the funds authorized to be appropriated by this Act or otherwise made available for fiscal year 2025 for the Department of Energy may be used to dismantle B83–1 nuclear gravity bombs.
                  
                  
                     (c)
                     Exceptions
                     The limitation on the use of funds under subsection (b) shall not apply—
                     
                        (1)
                        if the Commander of the United States Strategic Command submits to the congressional defense committees a certification that—
                        
                           (A)
                           the use of funds described in such subsection to dismantle B83–1 nuclear gravity bombs is in the best interest of the United States; and
                        
                        
                           (B)
                           there are no gaps as of the date of the submission of such certification in the strategic deterrence posture of the United States; or
                        
                     
                     
                        (2)
                        with respect to the dismantlement of B83–1 nuclear gravity bombs for the purpose of supporting safety and surveillance, sustainment, life extension or modification programs for the B83–1 or other weapons currently in, or planned to become part of, the nuclear weapons stockpile of the United States.
                     
                  
               
               
                  1624.
                  PROHIBITION ON REDUCTION OF INTERCONTINENTAL BALLISTIC MISSILES OF THE UNITED STATES
                  
                     (a)
                     Prohibition
                     Except as provided in subsection (b), none of the funds authorized to be appropriated by this Act or otherwise made available for fiscal year 2025 for the Department of Defense may be obligated or expended for the following, and the Department may not otherwise take any action to do the following:
                     
                        (1)
                        Reduce, or prepare to reduce, the responsiveness or alert level of the intercontinental ballistic missiles of the United States.
                     
                     
                        (2)
                        Reduce, or prepare to reduce, the quantity of deployed intercontinental ballistic missiles of the United States to a number less than 400.
                     
                  
                  
                     (b)
                     Exception
                     The prohibition in subsection (a) shall not apply to any of the following activities:
                     
                        (1)
                        The maintenance or sustainment of intercontinental ballistic missiles.
                     
                     
                        (2)
                        Ensuring the safety, security, or reliability of intercontinental ballistic missiles.
                     
                     
                        (3)
                        Facilitating the transition from the Minuteman III intercontinental ballistic missile to the Sentinel interncontinenal ballistic missile (previously referred to as the ground-based strategic deterrent weapon).
                     
                  
               
               
                  1625.
                  CONDITIONAL REQUIREMENTS FOR SENTINEL MISSILE PROGRAM
                  
                     (a)
                     In general
                     In the event that the Under Secretary of Defense for Acquisition and Sustainment elects not to terminate and certifies the continuation of the Sentinel missile program pursuant to section 4376(b) of title 10, United States Code, then prior to finalizing a revised Milestone B approval for the program the Under Secretary shall ensure, to the maximum extent practicable that—
                     
                        (1)
                        the contract structure for the program allows for maximum Federal Government oversight of—
                        
                           (A)
                           the Aerospace Vehicle Segment program area;
                        
                        
                           (B)
                           the Launch Control Center program area; and
                        
                        
                           (C)
                           the Launch Control Facility program area;
                        
                     
                     
                        (2)
                        such Federal Government oversight includes Federal Government control of—
                        
                           (A)
                           preliminary and critical design reviews entrance criteria, exit criteria; and
                        
                        
                           (B)
                           certification of completion at the subsystem level through total system architecture; and
                        
                     
                     
                        (3)
                        there are opportunities for competition throughout the lifecycle of the revised program, including competition across each of the program areas specified in paragraph (1).
                     
                  
                  
                     (b)
                     Report
                     If the Under Secretary of Defense for Acquisition and Sustainment certifies the continuation of the Sentinel missile program as described in subsection (a), then not later than 90 days following the date of such certification, the Under Secretary shall submit to the congressional defense committees a report that describes how the Under Secretary intends to meet the requirements of paragraphs (1) through (3) of such subsection.
                  
                  
                     (c)
                     Milestone B approval
                     The term Milestone B approval has the meaning given that term in section 4172 of title 10, United States Code.
                  
               
               
                  1626.
                  REPORTS AND BRIEFINGS ON RECOMMENDATIONS OF THE CONGRESSIONAL COMMISSION ON THE STRATEGIC POSTURE OF THE UNITED STATES
                  
                     (a)
                     Reports required
                     On an annual basis during the five-year period beginning on the date of the enactment of this Act, the Secretary of Defense shall submit to the congressional defense committees a report on the progress of the Department of Defense with respect to the implementation of recommendations made by the Congressional Commission on the Strategic Posture of the United States established under section 1687 of the National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2022 (Public Law 117–81) that pertain to the Department of Defense. Each such report shall include—
                     
                        (1)
                        for each such recommendation, a determination of whether the Secretary of Defense intends to implement the recommendation;
                     
                     
                        (2)
                        in the case of a recommendation the Secretary intends to implement—
                        
                           (A)
                           the intended timeline such implementation;
                        
                        
                           (B)
                           the total amount of funding required for such implementation;
                        
                        
                           (C)
                           a description of any additional resources or authorities the Secretary determines is necessary for such implementation; and
                        
                        
                           (D)
                           the plan for such implementation;
                        
                     
                     
                        (3)
                        in the case of a recommendation the Secretary determines is not advisable or feasible, the analysis and justification of the Secretary for making such determination; and
                     
                     
                        (4)
                        in the case of a recommendation the Secretary determines the Department is already implementing through a separate effort, the analysis and justification of the Secretary for such determination.
                     
                  
                  
                     (b)
                     Briefings required
                     Not less frequently than annually during the five-year period beginning on the date of the enactment of this Act, the Secretary of Defense shall provide to the congressional defense committees a briefing on—
                     
                        (1)
                        the progress of the Secretary in analyzing and implementing the recommendations made by the Congressional Commission on the Strategic Posture of the United States with respect to the Department of Defense;
                     
                     
                        (2)
                        any programs, projects, or other activities of the Department the Secretary is carrying out as of such date to implement the recommendations of such Congressional Commission; and
                     
                     
                        (3)
                        the amount of funding provided for such programs, projects, and activities.
                     
                  
               
               
                  1627.
                  STATEMENT OF POLICY WITH RESPECT TO NUCLEAR WEAPONS
                  It is the policy of the United States to maintain a human in the loop for all actions critical to informing and executing decisions by the President with respect to nuclear weapon employment.
               
               
                  1628.
                  EXPANSION OF NUCLEAR LONG RANGE STANDOFF CAPABILITY
                  
                     (a)
                     In general
                     The Secretary of the Air Force may use amounts authorized to be appropriated by this Act for fiscal year 2025 for Operation and Maintenance, Air Force to reconvert the B–52 bombers that had been modified to carry only conventional weapons to conform to the Treaty between the United States of America and the Russian Federation on Measures for the Further Reduction and Limitation of Strategic Offensive Arms signed on April 8, 2010, and entered into force on February 5, 2011 (commonly known as the New START Treaty), to be able to carry nuclear weapons.
                  
                  
                     (b)
                     Conversion of B–52 bombers
                     
                        (1)
                        Start date
                        Not later than 30 days after the expiration of the New Start Treaty, the Secretary of the Air Force shall commence the process of making available for nuclear certification the B–52 bombers described in subsection (a).
                     
                     
                        (2)
                        Completion date
                        The Secretary of the Air Force shall ensure that the reconversion of B–52 bombers described in subsection (a) is complete by not later than December 31, 2029.
                     
                  
                  
                     (c)
                     Funding profile for increased production of the long range standoff weapon
                     Not later than 120 days after the date of the enactment of this Act, the Secretary of the Air Force shall submit to the congressional defense committees a report on the funding profile necessary, by fiscal year, to expand by one-third the planned purchase of the Long Range Standoff Weapon.
                  
               
            
            
               D
               Missile Defense Programs
               
                  1631.
                  EXPANSION OF CERTAIN PROHIBITIONS RELATING TO MISSILE DEFENSE INFORMATION AND SYSTEMS TO APPLY TO PEOPLE’S REPUBLIC OF CHINA
                  Section 130h of title 10, United States Code, is amended—
                  
                     (1)
                     in subsection (a), by inserting or the People’s Republic of China after the Russian Federation;
                  
                  
                     (2)
                     in subsection (b), by inserting or the People’s Republic of China after the Russian Federation; and
                  
                  
                     (3)
                     in subsection (c), by inserting or the People’s Republic of China after the Russian Federation.
                  
               
               
                  1632.
                  LIMITATION ON AVAILABILITY OF FUNDS WITH RESPECT TO CERTAIN MISSILE DEFENSE SYSTEM GOVERNANCE DOCUMENTS, POLICIES, AND PROCEDURES
                  Of the funds authorized to be appropriated by this Act or otherwise made available for fiscal year 2025 for the Under Secretary of Defense for Research and Engineering for travel, not more than 90 percent may be obligated or expended until the date on which such Under Secretary submits to the congressional defense committees a certification that a notification to repeal, replace, or supersede the Directive-type Memorandum 20–002 has been submitted—
                  
                     (1)
                     in accordance with section 205(b) of title 10, United States Code; and
                  
                  
                     (2)
                     pursuant to section 1667 of the National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2024 (Public Law 118–31; 10 U.S.C. 205 note).
                  
               
               
                  1633.
                  ADDITIONAL MISSILE DEFENSE SITE FOR PROTECTION OF UNITED STATES HOMELAND
                  
                     (a)
                     Sense of Congress
                     It is the sense of Congress that an additional continental United States interceptor site, located at the Department of Defense’s conditionally designated preferred site of Fort Drum, New York, is needed to enhance the protection of the United States homeland against potential long-range ballistic missiles originating from Iran or North Korea.
                  
                  
                     (b)
                     Establishment of additional interceptor site
                     Not later than December 31, 2030, the Director of the Missile Defense Agency shall establish a fully operational third continental United States interceptor site on the East Coast of the United States. Such site shall be established at a location optimized to support the defense of the homeland of the United States from emerging long-range ballistic missile threats.
                  
                  
                     (c)
                     Coordination
                     In establishing the interceptor site required under subsection (b), the Director of the Missile Defense Agency shall coordinate with the commander of the relevant combatant command.
                  
                  
                     (d)
                     Reporting requirements
                     
                        (1)
                        Annual report
                        Not later than December 31, 2024, and on an annual basis thereafter, the Director of the Missile Defense Agency shall submit to the congressional defense committees a report the includes the following:
                        
                           (A)
                           The status of the planning and design, construction, development, and equipment requirements for the interceptor site required under subsection (b).
                        
                        
                           (B)
                           The plan of the Director for deploying additional missile defense sensor discrimination capabilities as required under section 1684 of the National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2016 (Public Law 114–92; 10 U.S.C. 4205 note).
                        
                     
                     
                        (2)
                        Plan and updates
                        In the budget justification materials submitted in support of the budget of the Department of Defense (as submitted with the budget of the President under section 1105(a) of title 31, United States Code) for each of fiscal years 2026 through 2031, the Director of the Missile Defense Agency shall include—
                        
                           (A)
                           a plan for establishing the interceptor site required under (b); and
                        
                        
                           (B)
                           an update on the progress of the Director in establishing such site.
                        
                     
                  
               
            
            
               E
               Other Matters
               
                  1641.
                  MODIFICATION TO ANNUAL ASSESSMENT OF BUDGET WITH RESPECT TO ELECTROMAGNETIC SPECTRUM OPERATIONS CAPABILITIES
                  Section 503 of chapter 25 of title 10, United States Code, is amended by adding at the end the following new paragraph:
                  
                     
                        (3)
                        The development of a capability for modeling and simulating multi-domain joint electromagnetic spectrum operations to—
                        
                           (A)
                           assess the ability of the joint force to conduct such operations in support of the operational plans of the combatant commands; and
                        
                        
                           (B)
                           inform improvements to such operations.
                        
                     
                     .
                  
               
               
                  1642.
                  COOPERATIVE THREAT REDUCTION FUNDS
                  
                     (a)
                     Funding allocation
                     Of the $350,116,000 authorized to be appropriated to the Department of Defense for fiscal year 2025 in section 301 and made available by the funding table in division D for the Department of Defense Cooperative Threat Reduction Program established under section 1321 of the Department of Defense Cooperative Threat Reduction Act (50 U.S.C. 3711), the following amounts may be obligated for the purposes specified:
                     
                        (1)
                        For delivery system threat reduction, $7,036,000.
                     
                     
                        (2)
                        For chemical security and elimination, $20,717,000.
                     
                     
                        (3)
                        For global nuclear security, $33,665,000.
                     
                     
                        (4)
                        For biological threat reduction, $209,858,000.
                     
                     
                        (5)
                        For proliferation prevention, $45,610,000.
                     
                     
                        (6)
                        For activities designated as Other Assessments/Administration Costs, $33,230,000.
                     
                  
                  
                     (b)
                     Specification of cooperative threat reduction funds
                     Funds appropriated pursuant to the authorization of appropriations in section 301 and made available by the funding table in division D for the Department of Defense Cooperative Threat Reduction Program shall be available for obligation for fiscal years 2025, 2026, and 2027.
                  
               
               
                  1643.
                  REPORT ON ROLES AND RESPONSIBILITIES RELATING TO DEFENSE AGAINST HYPERSONIC THREATS
                  
                     (a)
                     Findings
                     Congress finds the following:
                     
                        (1)
                        Hypersonic missile threats are expanding, particularly threats posed by China and Russia.
                     
                     
                        (2)
                        To address those growing threats roles and responsibilities must be clearly defined and understood.
                     
                  
                  
                     (b)
                     Report required
                     
                        (1)
                        In general
                        Not later than 180 days after the date of the enactment of this Act, the Secretary of Defense shall submit to the Committees on Armed Services of the Senate and House of Representatives a report describing the roles and responsibilities of organizations of Department of Defense with respect to defense against hypersonic threats.
                     
                     
                        (2)
                        Elements
                        The report under paragraph (1) shall include the following elements:
                        
                           (A)
                           A description of the roles and responsibilities of the Office of the Secretary of Defense, the military departments, the Joint Staff, the combatant commands, Defense Agencies, and Department of Defense Field Activities with respect to defense against hypersonic threats.
                        
                        
                           (B)
                           An assessment of any duplication of effort or gaps identified under paragraph (1).
                        
                        
                           (C)
                           A recommendation with respect to designating a single entity with acquisition authority with respect to the capability to defend the homeland from hypersonic threats.
                        
                        
                           (D)
                           Such other matters as the Secretary of Defense considers relevant.
                        
                     
                     
                        (3)
                        Form
                        The report under paragraph (1) shall be submitted in unclassified form, but may contain a classified annex.
                     
                  
               
            
         
         
            XVII
            OTHER DEFENSE MATTERS
            
               A
               Miscellaneous Authorities and Limitations
               
                  1701.
                  MODIFICATION OF HUMANITARIAN ASSISTANCE AUTHORITY
                  Section 2561 of title 10, United States Code is amended—
                  
                     (1)
                     in subsection (a), by inserting overseas before humanitarian purposes worldwide;
                  
                  
                     (2)
                     by redesignating subsections (c) through (f) as subsections (d) through (g), respectively.
                  
                  
                     (3)
                     by inserting after subsection (b) the following new subsection (c):
                     
                        
                           (c)
                           Notice before provision of assistance
                           
                              (1)
                              If the Secretary of Defense uses the authority under subsection (a) to provide assistance for any program or activity in an amount in excess of $5,000,000, the Secretary shall provide to the congressional committees specified in subsection (g) notice in writing of the use of such authority in accordance with paragraph (2). Notice under this subsection shall include an identification of each of the following:
                              
                                 (A)
                                 The amount, type, and purpose of assistance to be provided and the recipient of the assistance.
                              
                              
                                 (B)
                                 The goals and objectives of the assistance.
                              
                              
                                 (C)
                                 The number and role of any members of the Armed Forces involved in the provision of the assistance.
                              
                              
                                 (D)
                                 Any other information the Secretary determines is relevant.
                              
                           
                           
                              (2)
                              Notice required under paragraph (1) shall be provided—
                              
                                 (A)
                                 not later than 15 days before the provision of assistance under subsection (a) using funds authorized to be appropriated to the Department of Defense for a fiscal year for humanitarian assistance; or 
                              
                              
                                 (B)
                                 not later than 48 hours after the provision of such assistance, if the Secretary determines that extraordinary circumstances that affect the national security of the United States exist.
                              
                           
                        
                        ;
                     
                  
                  
                     (4)
                     in subsections (d) and (e), as so redesignated, by striking subsection (f) each place it appears and inserting subsection (g); and 
                  
                  
                     (5)
                     in subsection (g) as so redesignated, by striking subsections (c)(1) and (d) and inserting subsections (c)(1), (d)(1), and (e).
                  
               
               
                  1702.
                  EXCLUSION OF OCEANOGRAPHIC RESEARCH VESSELS FROM CERTAIN SOURCING REQUIREMENTS
                  Section 70912(5)(C) of the Infrastructure Investment and Jobs Act (Public Law 117–58) is amended by inserting (except naval vessels which are oceanographic research vessels operated by academic institutions) after facilities. 
               
               
                  1703.
                  EXEMPTION UNDER MARINE MAMMAL PROTECTION ACT OF 1972 FOR CERTAIN ACTIVITIES THAT MAY RESULT IN INCIDENTAL TAKE OF RICE’S WHALE
                  
                     (a)
                     Exemption process required
                     The Secretary of Commerce, the Secretary of the Interior, and the Secretary of Defense, as appropriate, shall begin the process under section 101(f)(1) of the Marine Mammal Protection Act of 1972 (16 U.S.C. 1371(f)(1)) to exempt from the requirements of that Act, as applicable, training and testing activities, including those that involve the use of live or inert impact weapons or aerial gunnery, conducted by the Secretary of the Air Force on the Eglin Gulf Test and Training Range, located at Eglin Air Force Base, that may result in incidental take of the Rice’s whale (Balaenoptera ricei).
                  
                  
                     (b)
                     Notification requirement satisfied
                     If the Secretary of Defense issues an exemption pursuant to subsection (a) the notification requirement under section 101(f)(4) of the Marine Mammal Protection Act of 1972 (16 U.S.C. 1371(f)(4)) shall be deemed to be satisfied upon issuance of the exemption.
                  
               
               
                  1704.
                  COMBATTING ILLICIT TOBACCO PRODUCTS
                  
                     (a)
                     In general
                     Beginning not later than 120 days after the date of the enactment of this Act, no exchange or commissary operated by or for a military resale entity shall offer for sale any ENDS product or oral nicotine product unless the manufacturer of such product executes and delivers to the appropriate officer for each military resale entity a certification form for each ENDS product or oral nicotine product offered for retail sale at an exchange or commissary that attests under penalty of perjury the following: 
                     
                        (1)
                        The manufacturer has received a marketing granted order for such product under section 910 of the Federal Food, Drug, and Cosmetic Act (21 U.S.C. 387j).
                     
                     
                        (2)
                        The manufacturer submitted a timely filed premarket tobacco product application for such product, and the application either remains under review by the Secretary or has received a denial order that has been and remains stayed by the Secretary or court order, rescinded by the Secretary, or vacated by a court.
                     
                  
                  
                     (b)
                     Failure to submit certification
                     A manufacturer shall submit the certification forms required in subsection (a) on an annual basis. Failure to submit such forms to a military resale entity as required under the preceding sentence shall result in the removal of the relevant ENDS product or oral nicotine product from sale at such military resale entity.
                  
                  
                     (c)
                     Certification contents
                     
                        (1)
                        In general
                        A certification form required under subsection (a) shall separately list each brand name, product name, category (such as e-liquid, power unit, device, e-liquid cartridge, e-liquid pod, or disposable), and flavor for each product that is sold offered for sale by the manufacturer submitting such form.
                     
                     
                        (2)
                        Other items
                        A manufacturer shall, when submitting a certification under subsection (a), include in that submission—
                        
                           (A)
                           a copy of the publicly available marketing granted order under section 910 of the Federal Food, Drug, and Cosmetic Act (21 U.S.C. 387j), as redacted by the Secretary and made available on the agency website;
                        
                        
                           (B)
                           a copy of the acceptance letter issued under such section for a timely filed premarket tobacco product application; or
                        
                        
                           (C)
                           a document issued by Secretary or by a court confirming that the premarket tobacco product application has received a denial order that has been and remains stayed by the Secretary or court order, rescinded by the Secretary, or vacated by a court.
                        
                     
                  
                  
                     (d)
                     Development of forms and publication
                     
                        (1)
                        In general
                        Not later than 60 days after the date of the enactment of this Act, each military resale entity shall—
                        
                           (A)
                           develop and make public the certification form such resale entity will require a manfacturer to submit to meet the requirement under subsection (a); and
                        
                        
                           (B)
                           provide instructions on how such certification form shall be submitted to the relevant military resale entity. 
                        
                     
                     
                        (2)
                        Submission in case of failure to publish form
                        If a military resale entity fails to prepare and make public such certification form, a manufacturer may submit information necessary to prove compliance with the requirements of this section.
                     
                  
                  
                     (e)
                     Changes to certification form
                     A manufacturer that submits a certification form under subsection (a) shall notify each relevant military resale entity to which such certification was submitted not later than 30 days after making any material change to the certification form, including—
                     
                        (1)
                        the issuance or denial of a marketing authorization or other order by the Secretary pursuant to section 910 of the Federal Food, Drug, and Cosmetic Act (21 U.S.C. 387j); or
                     
                     
                        (2)
                        any other order or action by the Secretary or any court that affects the ability of the ENDS product or oral nicotine product to be introduced or delivered into interstate commerce for commercial distribution in the United States.
                     
                  
                  
                     (f)
                     Directory
                     
                        (1)
                        In general
                        No later than 180 days after the enactment of this Act, each military resale entity shall maintain and make publicly available on its official website a directory that lists all ENDS product and oral nicotine product manufacturers and all product brand names, categories (such as e-liquid, e-liquid cartridge, e-liquid pod, or disposable), product names, and flavors for which certification forms have been submitted and approved by the relevant military resale entity.
                     
                     
                        (2)
                        Updates
                        Each military resale entity shall—
                        
                           (A)
                           update the directory under paragraph (1) at least monthly to ensure accuracy; and
                        
                        
                           (B)
                           establish a process to provide each exchange or commissary notice of the initial publication of the directory and changes made to the directory in the prior month.
                        
                     
                     
                        (3)
                        Exclusions and removals
                        An ENDS product or oral nicotine product shall not be included or retained in a directory of a military resale entity if the relevant military resale entity determines that any of the following apply:
                        
                           (A)
                           The manufacturer failed to provide a complete and accurate certification as required by this section.
                        
                        
                           (B)
                           The manufacturer submitted a certification that does not comply with the requirements of this section.
                        
                        
                           (C)
                           The information provided by the manufacturer in its certification contains false information, material misrepresentations, or omissions.
                        
                     
                     
                        (4)
                        Notice required
                        In the case of a removal of a product from a directory under paragraph (3), the relevant military resale entity shall provide to the manufacturer involved notice and at least 30 days to cure deficiencies before removing the manufacturer or its products from the directory.
                     
                     
                        (5)
                        Effect of removal
                        The ENDS product or oral nicotine product of a manufacturer identified in a notice of removal under paragraph (3) are, beginning on the date that is 30 days after such removal, subject to seizure, forfeiture, and destruction, and may not be purchased or sold for retail sale at any exchange or commissary operated by or for a military resale entity. 
                     
                  
                  
                     (g)
                     Definitons
                     For purposes of this section:
                     
                        (1)
                        ENDS product
                        The term ENDS product—
                        
                           (A)
                           means any non-combustible product that employs a heating element, power source, electronic circuit, or other electronic, chemical, or mechanical means, regardless of shape or size, to produce vapor from nicotine in a solution; 
                        
                        
                           (B)
                           includes a consumable nicotine liquid solution suitable for use in such product, whether sold with the product or separately; and 
                        
                        
                           (C)
                           does not include any product regulated as a drug or device under chapter V of the Federal Food, Drug, and Cosmetic Act (21 U.S.C. 351 et seq.).
                        
                     
                     
                        (2)
                        Military resale entities
                        The term military resale entities means—
                        
                           (A)
                           the Defense Commissary Agency;
                        
                        
                           (B)
                           the Army and Air Force Exchange Service;
                        
                        
                           (C)
                           the Navy Exchange Service Command; and 
                        
                        
                           (D)
                           the Marine Corps Exchange.
                        
                     
                     
                        (3)
                        Oral nicotine product
                        The term oral nicotine product means—
                        
                           (A)
                           means any non-combustible product that contains nicotine that is intended to be placed in the oral cavity;
                        
                        
                           (B)
                           does not include—
                           
                              (i)
                              any ENDS product; 
                           
                           
                              (ii)
                              smokeless tobacco (as defined in section 900 of the Federal Food, Drug, and Cosmetic Act (21 U.S.C. 387)); or
                           
                           
                              (iii)
                              any product regulated as a drug or device under chapter V of the Federal Food, Drug, and Cosmetic Act (21 U.S.C. 351 et seq.).
                           
                        
                     
                     
                        (4)
                        Secretary
                        The term Secretary means the Secretary of Health and Human Services, acting through the Commissioner of Food and Drugs. 
                     
                     
                        (5)
                        Timely filed premarket tobacco product application
                        The term timely filed premarket tobacco product application means an application that was submitted under section 910 of the Federal Food, Drug, and Cosmetic Act (21 U.S.C. 387j) on or before September 9, 2020, and accepted for filing with respect to an ENDS product or oral nicotine product containing nicotine marketed in the United States as of August 8, 2016.
                     
                  
               
               
                  1705.
                  PROHIBITION ON USE OF FUNDS FROM CONSTRUCTING OR MAINTAINING PIER OFF THE COAST OF GAZA
                  
                     (a)
                     Prohibition
                     None of the funds authorized to be appropriated or otherwise made available for fiscal year 2025 for the Department of Defense may be used to—
                     
                        (1)
                        construct, maintain, or repair a pier off the coast of Gaza;
                     
                     
                        (2)
                        transport humanitarian aid to a pier off the coast of Gaza, or to any other location from where such aid will be transported to a pier off the coast of Gaza; or
                     
                     
                        (3)
                        deploy members of the Armed Forces for the purposes or paragraphs (1) and (2). 
                     
                  
                  
                     (b)
                     Rule of construction
                     Subsection (a) shall not apply to the use of funds to deconstruct and remove any existing pier off the coast of Gaza.
                  
               
               
                  1706.
                  PROHIBITION OF FUNDS TO CCP ENTITIES
                  None of the funds authorized by this Act or otherwise made available by this Act may be made available to any entity based in the People’s Republic of China or any company whose beneficial ownership is Chinese. 
               
               
                  1707.
                  LIMITATION ON FUNDS
                  None of the funds authorized to be appropriated or otherwise made available by this Act may be used to provide funding to support, directly or indirectly—
                  
                     (1)
                     the Wuhan Institute of Virology located in the City of Wuhan in the People’s Republic of China;
                  
                  
                     (2)
                     the EcoHealth Alliance, Inc.;
                  
                  
                     (3)
                     any laboratory owned or controlled by the government of the People’s Republic of China, the Republic of Cuba, the Islamic Republic of Iran, the Democratic People’s Republic of Korea, the Russian Federation, the Bolivarian Republic of Venezuela under the regime of Nicolas Maduro Moros, or any other country determined by the Secretary of State to be a foreign adversary; or
                  
                  
                     (4)
                     gain-of-function research of concern.
                  
               
               
                  1708.
                  PROHIBITION ON ASSISTANCE FOR BUILDING IN, OR REBUILDING GAZA
                  None of the funds authorized to be appropriated by this Act or otherwise made available to the Secretary of Defense for fiscal year 2025 may be made available to build in or rebuild the Gaza strip on or after the date of the enactment of this Act.
               
               
                  1709.
                  LIMITATION ON USE OF FUNDS FOR PRODUCTION OF FILMS AND PROHIBITION ON USE OF SUCH FUNDS FOR FILMS SUBJECT TO CONDITIONS ON CONTENT OR ALTERED FOR SCREENING IN THE PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF CHINA OR AT THE REQUEST OF THE CHINESE COMMUNIST PARTY
                  
                     (a)
                     Limitation on use of funds
                     The Secretary may only authorize the provision of technical support or access to an asset controlled by or related to the Department of Defense to enter into a contract relating to the production or funding of a film by a United States company if the United States company, as a condition of receiving the support or access—
                     
                        (1)
                        provides to the Secretary a list of all films produced or funded by that company, the content of which has been submitted, during the shorter of the preceding 10-year period or the period beginning on the date of the enactment of this Act, to an official of the Government of the People’s Republic of China (referred to in this section as the PRC) or the Chinese Communist Party (referred to in this section as the CCP) for evaluation with respect to screening the film in the PRC;
                     
                     
                        (2)
                        includes, with respect to each such film—
                        
                           (A)
                           the title of the film; and
                        
                        
                           (B)
                           the date on which such submission occurred;
                        
                     
                     
                        (3)
                        enters into a written agreement with the Secretary not to alter the content of the film in response to, or in anticipation of, a request by an official of the Government of the PRC or the CCP; and
                     
                     
                        (4)
                        submits such agreement to the Secretary.
                     
                  
                  
                     (b)
                     Prohibition with respect to films subject to conditions on content or altered for screening in China
                     Notwithstanding subsection (a), the President may not authorize the provision of technical support or access to any asset controlled by the Federal Government for, or authorize the head of a Federal agency to enter into any contract relating to, the production or funding of a film by a United States company if—
                     
                        (1)
                        the film is co-produced by an entity located in the PRC that is subject to conditions on content imposed by an official of the Government of the PRC or the CCP; or
                     
                     
                        (2)
                        with respect to the most recent report submitted under subsection (c), the United States company is listed in the report pursuant to subparagraph (C) or (D) of paragraph (2) of that subsection.
                     
                  
                  
                     (c)
                     Report to congress
                     
                        (1)
                        In general
                        Not later than 180 days after the date of the enactment of this Act, and annually thereafter, the Secretary shall submit to the appropriate committees of Congress a report on films disclosed under subsection (a) that are associated with a United States company that has received technical support or access to an asset controlled by the Department of Defense for, or has entered into a contract with the Federal Government relating to, the production or funding of a film.
                     
                     
                        (2)
                        Elements
                        Each report required by paragraph (1) shall include the following:
                        
                           (A)
                           A description of each film listed pursuant to the requirement under subsection (a)(1), the content of which was submitted, during the shorter of the preceding 10-year period or the period beginning on the date of the enactment of this Act, by a United States company to an official of the Government of the PRC or the CCP for evaluation with respect to screening the film in the PRC, including—
                           
                              (i)
                              the United States company that submitted the contents of the film;
                           
                           
                              (ii)
                              the title of the film; and
                           
                           
                              (iii)
                              the date on which such submission occurred.
                           
                        
                        
                           (B)
                           A description of each film with respect to which a United States company entered into a written agreement with the Secretary providing the support or access, as applicable, pursuant to the requirement under subsection (a)(2) not to alter the content of the film in response to, or in anticipation of, a request by an official of the Government of the PRC or the CCP, during the shorter of the preceding 10-year period or the period beginning on the date of the enactment of this Act, including—
                           
                              (i)
                              the United States company that entered into the agreement; and
                           
                           
                              (ii)
                              the title of the film.
                           
                        
                        
                           (C)
                           The title of any film described pursuant to subparagraph (A), and the corresponding United States company described pursuant to clause (i) of that subparagraph—
                           
                              (i)
                              that was submitted to an official of the Government of the PRC or the CCP during the preceding 3-year period; and
                           
                           
                              (ii)
                              for which the Secretary assesses that the content was altered in response to, or in anticipation of, a request by an official of the Government of the PRC or the CCP.
                           
                        
                        
                           (D)
                           The title of any film that is described in both subparagraph (A) and subparagraph (B), and the corresponding one or more United States companies described in clause (i) of each such subparagraph—
                           
                              (i)
                              that was submitted to an official of the Government of the PRC or the CCP during the preceding 10-year period; and
                           
                           
                              (ii)
                              for which the Secretary assesses that the content was altered in response to, or in anticipation of, a request by an official of the Government of the PRC or the CCP.
                           
                        
                     
                  
                  
                     (d)
                     Definitions
                     In this section:
                     
                        (1)
                        Appropriate committees of congress
                        The term appropriate committees of Congress means—
                        
                           (A)
                           the Committee on Foreign Relations and the Committee on Armed Services of the Senate and
                        
                        
                           (B)
                           the Committee on Foreign Affairs and the Committee on Armed Services of the House of Representatives.
                        
                     
                     
                        (2)
                        Content
                        The term content means any description of a film, including the script.
                     
                     
                        (3)
                        Secretary
                        The term Secretary means the Secretary of Defense.
                     
                     
                        (4)
                        United states company
                        The term United States company means a private entity incorporated under the laws of the United States or any jurisdiction within the United States.
                     
                  
               
               
                  1710.
                  PROHIBITION ON USE OF FUNDS
                  None of the funds authorized to be appropriated by this Act may be used to implement any of the following executive orders: 
                  
                     (1)
                     Executive Order 13990, relating to Protecting Public Health and the Environment and Restoring Science To Tackle the Climate Crisis.
                  
                  
                     (2)
                     Executive Order 14008, relating to Tackling the Climate Crisis at Home and Abroad.
                  
                  
                     (3)
                     Section 6 of Executive Order 14013, relating to Rebuilding and Enhancing Programs To Resettle Refugees and Planning for the Impact of Climate Change on Migration.
                  
                  
                     (4)
                     Executive Order 14030, relating to Climate-Related Financial Risk.
                  
                  
                     (5)
                     Executive Order 14057, relating to Catalyzing Clean Energy Industries and Jobs Through Federal Sustainability.
                  
                  
                     (6)
                     Executive Order 14082, relating to Implementation of the Energy and Infrastructure Provisions of the Inflation Reduction Act of 2022.
                  
                  
                     (7)
                     Executive Order 14096, relating to Revitalizing Our Nation's Commitment to Environmental Justice for All.
                  
               
               
                  1711.
                  LIMITATION ON AVAILABILITY OF FUNDS FOR UKRAINE
                  None of the funds authorized to be appropriated by this Act or otherwise made available for construction of covered military unaccompanied housing (as defined in section 2856 of title 10, United States Code) for fiscal year 2025 or any fiscal year thereafter are authorized to be transferred or otherwise made available to Ukraine or to provide any form of assistance to Ukraine.
               
               
                  1712.
                  DEPARTMENT OF DEFENSE REQUIREMENT TO USE Taiwan
                  
                  
                     (a)
                     In general
                     The Department of Defense may not use Chinese Taipei and shall use Taiwan, except—
                     
                        (1)
                        in historical context explaining the People’s Republic of China’s attempt to control Taiwan through persuasion and coercion; or
                     
                     
                        (2)
                        in the formal title of a Federal document.
                     
                  
                  
                     (b)
                     Requirement to update website
                     Not later than 14 days after the date of the enactment of this Act, the Secretary of Defense shall ensure the website of the Department of Defense meets the requirements of this section.
                  
               
               
                  1713.
                  PROJECT SPECTRUM
                  
                     Chapter 19 of title 10, United States Code, is amended by inserting before section 399 the following new section:
                  
                     
                        398b.
                        PROJECT SPECTRUM
                        
                           (a)
                           Project Spectrum; purpose
                           There is within the Office of Small Business Programs of the Department of Defense a program known as Project Spectrum, the purpose of which is to provide to covered entities, through an online platform, digital resources and services that increase awareness about cybersecurity risks and help such covered entities to comply with the cybersecurity requirements of the defense acquisition system.
                        
                        
                           (b)
                           Eligibility
                           The Director of the Office of Small Business Programs may establish eligibility requirements for the receipt by a covered entity of a given resource or service made available through Project Spectrum.
                        
                        
                           (c)
                           Application
                           To receive through Project Spectrum a resource or service for which the Director has established an eligibility requirement under subsection (b), a covered entity shall submit to the Director an application at such time, in such form, and containing such information as the Director determines appropriate.
                        
                        
                           (d)
                           Functions
                           In carrying out Project Spectrum, the Director shall maintain an online platform through which the Director shall make available to each covered entity that the Director determines to be eligible under subsection (b) with respect to a given resource or service, the following:
                           
                              (1)
                              Educational materials regarding cybersecurity, including cybersecurity training courses and workforce development training.
                           
                           
                              (2)
                              Guidance regarding best practices for cybersecurity matters, including guidance for developing internal cybersecurity policies and suggestions for procedures for reviewing any violation of such policies.
                           
                           
                              (3)
                              Assessments of the cybersecurity practices and cybersecurity systems used by a covered entity.
                           
                           
                              (4)
                              A review and feasibility assessment of products, software, and data security tools available in the commercial marketplace.
                           
                           
                              (5)
                              Cybersecurity services, including dashboard monitoring services, continuous threat monitoring services, software patching services, and patch testing services.
                           
                           
                              (6)
                              Cybersecurity readiness checks.
                           
                           
                              (7)
                              A platform for secure data collaboration between two or more employees of a covered entity and between multiple covered entities.
                           
                           
                              (8)
                              Any additional resources or services, as determined by the Director.
                           
                        
                        
                           (e)
                           Definitions
                           In this section:
                           
                              (1)
                              The term covered entity means a supplier of the Department of Defense that is a small or medium business and registers to access the online platform of Project Spectrum.
                           
                           
                              (2)
                              The term defense acquisition system has the meaning given to such term in section 3001 of this title.
                           
                        
                     
                     .
                  
               
            
            
               B
               Studies and Reports
               
                  1721.
                  TERMINATION OF REPORTING REQUIREMENT FOR CROSS DOMAIN INCIDENTS AND EXEMPTIONS TO POLICIES FOR INFORMATION TECHNOLOGY
                  Section 1727 of the William M. (Mac) Thornberry National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2021 (Public Law 116–283; 10 U.S.C. 2224 note) is amended by adding at the end the following new subsection:
                  
                     
                        (c)
                        Termination date
                        The requirement of the Secretary of Defense to submit a monthly report pursuant to subsection (a) shall terminate on December 31, 2025.
                     
                     .
                  
               
               
                  1722.
                  ANALYSIS OF CERTAIN UNMANNED AIRCRAFT SYSTEMS ENTITIES
                  
                     (a)
                     In general
                     Not later than 180 days after the date of the enactment of this Act, the Secretary of Defense shall conduct an analysis to determine if any unmanned aircraft systems entity, or any subsidiary, parent, affiliate, or successor of such an entity, should be identified as a Chinese military company or a military-civil fusion contributor and included on the list maintained by the Department of Defense in accordance with section 1260H(b) of the National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2021 (10 U.S.C. 113 note).
                  
                  
                     (b)
                     Addition of certain unmanned aircraft systems entities technologies to covered list
                     
                        (1)
                        In general
                        Section 2(c) of the Secure and Trusted Communications Networks Act of 2019 (47 U.S.C. 1601(c)) is amended by adding at the end the following new paragraph:
                        
                           
                              (5)
                              The communications equipment or service being—
                              
                                 (A)
                                 telecommunications or video surveillance equipment produced by Shenzhen Da-Jiang Innovations Sciences and Technologies Company Limited (commonly known as ‘DJI Technologies’) (or any subsidiary or affiliate thereof); or
                              
                              
                                 (B)
                                 telecommunications or video surveillance services, including software, provided by an entity described in subparagraph (A) or using equipment described in such subparagraph.
                              
                           
                           .
                        
                     
                     
                        (2)
                        Conforming amendments
                        Section 2 of the Secure and Trusted Communications Networks Act of 2019 (47 U.S.C. 1601) is amended by striking paragraphs (1) through (4) each place it appears and inserting paragraphs (1) through (5). 
                     
                  
                  
                     (c)
                     Definitions
                     In this section:
                     
                        (1)
                        The term unmanned aircraft system has the meaning given such term in section 44801 of title 49, United States Code.
                     
                     
                        (2)
                        The term unmanned aircraft systems entity means an entity that manufactures or assembles an unmanned aircraft system.
                     
                  
               
               
                  1723.
                  ANNUAL REPORT ON POSTSECONDARY EDUCATION COMPLAINT SYSTEM
                  
                     (a)
                     In general
                     Not later than one year after the date of the enactment of this Act, and annually thereafter, the Secretary of Defense shall submit to Congress and make publicly available on the Department of Defense's website a report on the Postsecondary Education Complaint System (PECS).
                  
                  
                     (b)
                     Elements
                     The report required under subsection (a) shall include the following elements:
                     
                        (1)
                        A qualitative description of the status of PECS that year.
                     
                     
                        (2)
                        A qualitative description of the efforts made by the Department of Defense that year to increase awareness and usage of PECS among those who are eligible to file complaints through the system.
                     
                     
                        (3)
                        The total number of complaints filed through PECS that year and the status of those complaints, such as closed or active.
                     
                     
                        (4)
                        The number of complaints that year broken down by—
                        
                           (A)
                           military service;
                        
                        
                           (B)
                           issue; and
                        
                        
                           (C)
                           educational institution sector, including private for-profit, private non-profit, and public.
                        
                     
                     
                        (5)
                        A ranking of the top five issues raised by students that year.
                     
                     
                        (6)
                        The number of institutions with two or more complaints that year, the names of those institutions, the number of participants at each of those institutions, and the number of complaints for each of those institutions.
                     
                     
                        (7)
                        The number of views and visitors of the PECS website that year. 
                     
                     
                        (8)
                        A discussion of how the elements described in paragraphs (1) through (7) for that year compare to the elements described in paragraphs (1) through (7) in previous years. 
                     
                  
               
               
                  1724.
                  FEASIBILITY STUDY OF DOMESTIC REFINING OF DEEP SEA CRITICAL MINERAL INTERMEDIATES
                  
                     (a)
                     Study required
                     Pursuant to an agreement described in subsection (b) and to the extent practicable, the Assistant Secretary of Defense for Industrial Base Policy shall conduct a study to assess the feasibility of improving domestic capabilities for refining polymetallic nodule-derived intermediates into high purity nickel, cobalt sulfate, and copper for defense applications. Such study shall also examine existing supply chains for such intermediates.
                  
                  
                     (b)
                     Agreement
                     
                        (1)
                        In general
                        The Assistant Secretary of Defense for Industrial Base Policy shall seek to enter into an agreement with an entity described in paragraph (2) to carry out the study required under this section.
                     
                     
                        (2)
                        Entity described
                        An entity described in this section is one that is experienced in refining critical minerals and producing battery-grade nickel, cobalt sulfate, and copper cathode.
                     
                  
                  
                     (c)
                     Deadline
                     Not later than December 31, 2025, the Assistant Secretary of Defense for Industrial Base Policy Pursuant shall make publicly available the results of the study required under subsection (a).
                  
               
               
                  1725.
                  CERTIFICATION AND REPORTS ON SOUTH AFRICA
                  
                     (a)
                     Presidential certification
                     
                        (1)
                        In general
                        Not later than 30 days after the date of the enactment of this Act, the President, in consultation with the Secretary of State and the Secretary of Defense, shall certify to the appropriate congressional committees and release publicly an unclassified determination explicitly stating whether South Africa has engaged in activities that undermine United States national security or foreign policy interests.
                     
                     
                        (2)
                        Report
                        The certification required under paragraph (1) shall be accompanied by an unclassified report, with a classified annex if the President considers such as necessary, providing a justification for the determination made pursuant to such paragraph.
                     
                  
                  
                     (b)
                     Review of bilateral relationship
                     
                        (1)
                        Full review
                        The President, in consultation with the Secretary of Defense, the Secretary of State, the Administrator of the United States Agency for International Development, the United States Ambassador to South Africa, and the heads of such other Federal departments and agencies that play a substantial role in United States relations with South Africa, shall conduct a review of the bilateral relationship between the United States and South Africa.
                     
                     
                        (2)
                        Report
                        Not later than 120 days after the date of the enactment of this Act, the President shall submit to the appropriate congressional committees a report that includes the findings of the review required by paragraph (1).
                     
                  
                  
                     (c)
                     Supplemental report
                     
                        (1)
                        In general
                        Not later than 90 days after the date of the enactment of this Act, the Secretary of Defense shall submit to the appropriate congressional committees a report on United States defense cooperation with the Government of South Africa.
                     
                     
                        (2)
                        Elements
                        The report required under paragraph (1) shall also include the following:
                        
                           (A)
                           An overview of United States defense cooperation with the Government of South Africa, including military exercises, arms sales, and international military education and training.
                        
                        
                           (B)
                           An assessment of defense cooperation between the Government of South Africa and the Government of the Islamic Republic of Iran, the Government of the People’s Republic of China, and the Government of the Russian Federation.
                        
                     
                     
                        (3)
                        Form
                        The report required under paragraph (1) shall be transmitted in an unclassified form and may contain a classified annex.
                     
                  
                  
                     (d)
                     Appropriate congressional committees defined
                     In this section, the term appropriate congressional committees means the congressional defense committees, the Committee on Foreign Affairs of the House of Representatives, and the Committee on Foreign Relations of the Senate.
                  
               
               
                  1726.
                  EXTENSION OF REPORT ON ISLAMIC REVOLUTIONARY GUARD CORPS-AFFILIATED OPERATIVES ABROAD
                  
                     (a)
                     In general
                     Not later than 180 days after the date of enactment of this Act, and annually thereafter for a period of 4 years, the Secretary of State, in consultation with the Secretary of Defense, shall submit to the appropriate congressional committees a report that includes a detailed description of—
                     
                        (1)
                        all Islamic Revolutionary Guard Corps-affiliated operatives serving in diplomatic or consular roles abroad; and
                     
                     
                        (2)
                        the ways in which the Department of State and the Department of Defense are working with partner countries to inform them of the threat posed by Islamic Revolutionary Guard Corps-affiliated officials serving in diplomatic or consular roles in third party countries.
                     
                  
                  
                     (b)
                     Form
                     The report required under subsection (a) shall be submitted in unclassified form but may contain a classified annex.
                  
                  
                     (c)
                     Appropriate congressional committees defined
                     In this section, the term appropriate congressional committees means—
                     
                        (1)
                        the Committee on Armed Services and the Committee on Foreign Relations of the Senate; and
                     
                     
                        (2)
                        the Committee on Armed Services and the Committee on Foreign Affairs of the House of Representatives.
                     
                  
               
               
                  1727.
                  REPORT ON RECEIPT OF FUNDING FROM CONFUCIUS INSTITUTES
                  The Secretary of Defense shall submit to Congress a report on United States institutions of higher education that host Confucius Institutes and have received funding from the Department of Defense.
               
               
                  1728.
                  REPORT ON IRANIAN OIL SALES PROCEEDS
                  
                     (a)
                     In general
                     Not later than 90 days after the date of the enactment of this Act, the President shall submit to the appropriate congressional committees a report that includes each of the following:
                     
                        (1)
                        An assessment of how proceeds from illicit Iranian oil sales support Iran’s military and security budget.
                     
                     
                        (2)
                        An assessment of the extent to which the funds described in paragraph (1) have been used directly or indirectly by Iran’s Islamic Revolutionary Guard Corps, Hamas, Hizballah, or other Iranian proxies.
                     
                     
                        (3)
                        An overview of efforts undertaken to enforce sanctions against Iran’s energy sector, including interdictions of tankers.
                     
                  
                  
                     (b)
                     Form
                     The report required by subsection (a) shall be submitted in unclassified form, but may include a classified annex.
                  
                  
                     (c)
                     Appropriate congressional committees defined
                     In this section, the term appropriate congressional committees means—
                     
                        (1)
                        the Committee on Armed Services and the Committee on Foreign Relations of the Senate; and
                     
                     
                        (2)
                        the Committee on Armed Services and the Committee on Foreign Affairs of the House of Representatives.
                     
                  
               
               
                  1729.
                  WORKING GROUP ON BLOCKCHAIN, SMART CONTRACTS, AND DISTRIBUTED LEDGER TECHNOLOGIES
                  
                     (a)
                     Establishment required
                     Not later than 180 days after the date of the enactment of this section, the Secretary of Defense shall establish a working group to be known as the Blockchain-Distributed Ledger Technologies-Smart Contracts Defense Applications Working Group (referred to in this section as the Working Group).
                  
                  
                     (b)
                     Duties
                     The duties of the Working Group are to—
                     
                        (1)
                        identify whether blockchain, smart contracts, and distributed ledger technologies could be used by the Secretary of Defense for the purposes of improving the functions and efficiency of the Department of Defense; and
                     
                     
                        (2)
                        not later than the date described in subsection (h), submit to the Secretary a report summarizing the findings of the Working Group under paragraph (1). 
                     
                  
                  
                     (c)
                     Composition
                     The Working Group shall be composed of the following members or their designees:
                     
                        (1)
                        A representative from the Office of Science and Technology Policy.
                     
                     
                        (2)
                        Representatives of such organizations and elements of the Department of Defense as the Secretary of Defense determines appropriate.
                     
                  
                  
                     (d)
                     Charter
                     Not later than April 1, 2025, the Secretary of Defense shall develop a charter with respect to the functions of the Working Group.
                  
                  
                     (e)
                     Rule of construction
                     Nothing in this section shall be construed to permit the Secretary of Defense to provide any competitive advantage to any member of the Working Group. 
                  
                  
                     (f)
                     Sunset
                     The Working Group shall terminate on December 31, 2029.
                  
               
               
                  1730.
                  INSPECTOR GENERAL OF THE DEPARTMENT OF DEFENSE ANNUAL REPORT ON OVERSIGHT OF FRAUD, WASTE, AND ABUSE
                  Not later than one year after the date of the enactment of this section, and each fiscal year thereafter, the Inspector General of the Department of Defense shall submit to Congress and the Comptroller General of the United States, and make publicly available, a report containing, for each fiscal year—
                  
                     (1)
                     a description of the budget of the Department of Defense, the total amount and dollar value of oversight investigations into fraud, waste, and abuse conducted by the Inspector General of the Department of Defense, and the total amount and dollar value of oversight investigations into fraud, waste, and abuse conducted by the Inspectors General of each military department;
                  
                  
                     (2)
                     statistical tables showing—
                     
                        (A)
                        the total number and dollar value of oversight investigations completed and pending, set forth separately by type of oversight investigation;
                     
                     
                        (B)
                        the priority given to each type of oversight investigation;
                     
                     
                        (C)
                        the length of time taken for each type of oversight investigation, from the date of receipt of a qualified incurred cost submission (as such term is defined in section 3842 of title 10, United States Code) and from the date on which the oversight investigation begins;
                     
                     
                        (D)
                        the aggregate cost of performing oversight investigations, set forth separately by type of oversight investigation; and
                     
                     
                        (E)
                        the total number and dollar value of oversight investigations that are pending for a period longer than one year at the end of the fiscal year covered by the report, and the fiscal year in which the qualified incurred cost submission was received, set forth separately by type of oversight investigation;
                     
                  
                  
                     (3)
                     a summary of any recommendations of actions or resources needed to improve the oversight investigation process; and
                  
                  
                     (4)
                     any other matters the Inspector General considers appropriate.
                  
               
               
                  1731.
                  GAO REPORT ON SETTLEMENTS IN MEDICAL MALPRACTICE CLAIMS BY MEMBERS OF THE UNIFORMED SERVICES
                  The Comptroller General of the United States shall submit to Congress a report on the rates at which Department of Defense awards settlements in medical malpractice claims by members of the uniformed services under part 45 of title 32, Code of Federal Regulations, including—
                  
                     (1)
                     a comparison of such rates to the rates at which settlements are awarded in similar civilian medical malpractice claims;
                  
                  
                     (2)
                     recommendations for improvements to the system for medical malpractice claims by members of the uniformed services.
                  
               
               
                  1732.
                  REPORT ON SECURITY COOPERATION WITH THE GOVERNMENT OF THE TURKS AND CAICOS ISLANDS
                  Not later than 90 days after the date of the enactment of this Act the Secretary of Defense, in coordination with the Secretary of State and the Secretary of Homeland Security, shall submit to the Committees on Armed Services of the Senate and House Representatives a report on security cooperation with the Government of the Turks and Caicos Islands and the treatment of detained Americans on Turks and Caicos Islands, including—
                  
                     (1)
                     the efforts of such Departments to counter threats from transnational criminal organizations, violent extremist organizations, and malign regional and external state actors in cooperation with the Government of the Turks and Caicos Islands;
                  
                  
                     (2)
                     United States taxpayer assistance made available for the Turks and Caicos Islands since October 1, 2014; and
                  
                  
                     (3)
                     efforts by such Departments to address the treatment of and human rights abuses committed against United States individuals and others detained by the Government of the Turks and Caicos Islands and to advocate for changes in policy related to their detention of Americans, during fiscal years 2022 through 2024.
                  
               
               
                  1733.
                  ASSESSMENT OF THE ACCURACY OF GAZA MINISTRY OF HEALTH CASUALTY REPORTING
                  
                     (a)
                     In General
                     Not later than 90 days after the date of the enactment of this Act, the Director of the Defense Intelligence Agency shall submit to the Committees on Armed Services of the Senate and the House of Representatives a report assessing the accuracy of the reporting of the Gaza Ministry of Health regarding—
                     
                        (1)
                        the total casualty figures reported by the Ministry; and
                     
                     
                        (2)
                        the information disseminated by the Ministry of casualties grouped by age and gender.
                     
                  
                  
                     (b)
                     Form
                     The assessment required by paragraph (1) shall be transmitted in an unclassified manner, and any supporting documentation may be transmitted in a classified annex.
                  
                  
                     (c)
                     Briefing
                     Not later than 30 days after the submission of the report required by subsection (a), the Director of the Defense Intelligence Agency shall brief the Committees on Armed Services of the Senate and the House of Representatives on the contents of the report.
                  
               
               
                  1734.
                  ANNUAL REPORT ON DEPARTMENT OF DEFENSE ASSISTANCE TO U.S. CUSTOMS AND BORDER PROTECTION AND DEPARTMENT OF HOMELAND SECURITY ON NORTHERN BORDER SECURITY
                  The Secretary of Defense shall submit to Congress an annual report on the assistance the Department of Defense provides to U.S. Customs and Border Protection and the Department of Homeland Security to secure the northern border of the United States.
               
               
                  1735.
                  COMPTROLLER GENERAL STUDY AND REPORT ON ANTAGONISTIC USE OF SATELLITES
                  
                     (a)
                     Study
                     
                        (1)
                        In general
                        The Comptroller General of the United States shall conduct a study to assess threats to the interests of the United States posed by antagonistic use of satellites by adversarial foreign states, including—
                        
                           (A)
                           use of a satellite for combat;
                        
                        
                           (B)
                           damage, destruction, or incapacitation of a satellite that is owned, operated, controlled, or used by—
                           
                              (i)
                              the United States Government;
                           
                           
                              (ii)
                              a commercial entity organized under the laws of the United States or any jurisdiction within the United States; or
                           
                           
                              (iii)
                              a country that is a member of the North Atlantic Treaty Organization; and
                           
                        
                        
                           (C)
                           conducting or attempting to conduct espionage or surveillance of, or a cyber intrusion that affects—
                           
                              (i)
                              a physical resource of the Department of Defense, including a Department of Defense installation; or
                           
                           
                              (ii)
                              critical infrastructure (as defined in section 1016(e) of the USA PATRIOT Act (42 U.S.C. 5195c(e))), including—
                              
                                 (I)
                                 an electricity transmission system or network;
                              
                              
                                 (II)
                                 a water management system or resource;
                              
                              
                                 (III)
                                 a telecommunications facility or network;
                              
                              
                                 (IV)
                                 a nuclear facility;
                              
                              
                                 (V)
                                 an airport;
                              
                              
                                 (VI)
                                 a railway; or 
                              
                              
                                 (VII)
                                 a sea port.
                              
                           
                        
                     
                     
                        (2)
                        Consultation
                        In conducting the study under this subsection, the Comptroller General shall consult with—
                        
                           (A)
                           the Administrator of the National Aeronautics and Space Administration;
                        
                        
                           (B)
                           the Chair of the Federal Communications Commission;
                        
                        
                           (C)
                           the Secretary of Defense;
                        
                        
                           (D)
                           the Secretary of Homeland Security; and
                        
                        
                           (E)
                           specialists who—
                           
                              (i)
                              are affiliated with an institution of higher education or research organization; and
                           
                           
                              (ii)
                              have expertise in satellite technology, satellite warfare, cybersecurity, or another relevant subject related to warfare and communications.
                           
                        
                     
                  
                  
                     (b)
                     Report
                     Not later than one year after the date of the enactment of this Act, the Comptroller General shall submit to the Secretary of Defense, the Committee on Armed Services of the Senate, and the Committee on Armed Services of the House of Representatives a report that—
                     
                        (1)
                        includes operational, policy, and legislative recommendations to protect against and respond to threats identified by the study required under subsection (a); and
                     
                     
                        (2)
                        may include recommendations for—
                        
                           (A)
                           preventive, preparatory, and emergency response actions by municipal governments, State governments, and private sector entities; and
                        
                        
                           (B)
                           educational curricula and workforce development programs to address the need for trained professionals who are able to implement the recommendations described in such report.
                        
                     
                  
                  
                     (c)
                     Adversarial foreign state defined
                     In this section, the term adversarial foreign state means—
                     
                        (1)
                        the Islamic Republic of Iran; 
                     
                     
                        (2)
                        the People's Republic of China;
                     
                     
                        (3)
                        the Russian Federation; and
                     
                     
                        (4)
                        any foreign state designated by the Secretary of State as an adversarial foreign state for purposes of this section.
                     
                  
               
               
                  1736.
                  REPORTING ON IRANIAN CENTRIFUGE INSTALLATION
                  
                     (a)
                     Report
                     
                        (1)
                        In general
                        Not later than 90 days after the date of enactment of this Act, the Secretary of Defense shall provide a report to the congressional defense committees, the Committee on Foreign Affairs of the House of Representatives, and the Committee on Foreign Relations of the Senate with the content described in paragraph (2).
                     
                     
                        (2)
                        Content described
                        The content described for the report in paragraph (1) includes the following:
                        
                           (A)
                           An assessment of the types and numbers of centrifuges installed in declared and undeclared nuclear facilities in Iran since May 2021.
                        
                        
                           (B)
                           An assessment of the timeline required by Iran to produce weapons-grade uranium in May 2021.
                        
                        
                           (C)
                           An assessment of the current timeline required by Iran to produce weapons-grade uranium.
                        
                        
                           (D)
                           An assessment of whether Iran has moved advanced centrifuges to facilities other than its safeguarded enrichment plants, including where and how many, if applicable.
                        
                        
                           (E)
                           An assessment of how many advanced centrifuges Iran would need of each type to enrich to weapons-grade.
                        
                        
                           (F)
                           An assessment of whether a heavily fortified nuclear facility Iran is building near the Natanz site contains or will contain an enrichment plant.
                        
                     
                     
                        (3)
                        Form
                        This report shall be transmitted in unclassified form and may contain a classified annex.
                     
                  
               
               
                  1737.
                  REPORT ON SYSTEM DEPENDENCIES, UPTIME, AND KEY FACTORS OF ELECTRONIC HEALTH RECORD SYSTEM
                  
                     (a)
                     In general
                     Not later than 180 days after the date of the enactment of this Act, the Secretary of Defense shall submit to the appropriate congressional committees a report on the electronic health record system and other system dependencies, uptime, and key factors that affect the Department of Defense and the Department of Veterans Affairs.
                  
                  
                     (b)
                     Report
                     The report required under subsection (a) shall include each of the following:
                     
                        (1)
                        A list of the information technology systems, infrastructure, and entities of the Department of Defense pertaining to the electronic health record system of the Department with which the Department of Veterans Affairs has an operational or technical dependency.
                     
                     
                        (2)
                        A list of instances of electronic health record system and associated system downtime, performance degradations, outages, or incidents of the Department of Defense during fiscal year 2024, including, for each such instance each of the following:
                        
                           (A)
                           The duration.
                        
                        
                           (B)
                           The results of a root cause analysis.
                        
                        
                           (C)
                           Any after action reporting.
                        
                        
                           (D)
                           The accountable office within the Department.
                        
                        
                           (E)
                           An indication of whether the Department of Veterans Affairs was also affected.
                        
                     
                     
                        (3)
                        Any steps taken by, or plan of, the Secretary of Defense to address, mitigate, or resolve the instances identified in paragraph (2), as well as the an identification of any uptime goals for any system affected by an instance identified in paragraph (2).
                     
                     
                        (4)
                        Any steps taken by the Secretary of Defense to improve governance, coordination, and policy decisions conducted with or affecting the Secretary of Veterans Affairs related to electronic health record systems and associated systems of the Department of Defense with which the Department of Veterans Affairs has an operational or technical dependency.
                     
                     
                        (5)
                        A plan or schedule, if any, to modernize or replace systems of the Department of Defense pertaining to identity management or patient registration, including the Defense Enrollment Eligibility Reporting System, with which the Department of Veterans Affairs has an operational or technical dependency.
                     
                  
                  
                     (c)
                     Definition
                     In this section, the term appropriate congressional committees means—
                     
                        (1)
                        the Committee on Armed Services and the Committee on Veterans’ Affairs of the Senate; and
                     
                     
                        (2)
                        the Committee on Armed Services and the Committee on Veterans’ Affairs of the House of Representatives.
                     
                  
               
               
                  1738.
                  REPORT ON USE OF NUCLEAR POWER FOR MILITARY AND SOFT POWER PURPOSES
                  Not later than 180 days after the date of the enactment of this Act, the Secretary of Defense and the Secretary of State shall jointly submit a report to Congress on Russian and Chinese efforts relating to transportable nuclear power that specifically evaluates the manner and extent to which both Russia and China are using transportable nuclear power for direct military purposes and as a soft power tool globally. 
               
               
                  1739.
                  UNDER SECRETARY OF DEFENSE FOR POLICY STUDY AND REPORT ON EXPANSION OF NATIONAL GUARD STATE PARTNERSHIP PROGRAM
                  
                     (a)
                     Study
                     The Under Secretary of Defense for Policy, in consultation with the Secretary of State and the Chief of the National Guard Bureau, shall conduct a study to assess the feasibility and benefits of expanding the National Guard State Partnership Program to additional countries in the First Island Chain and the Second Island Chain, including—
                     
                        (1)
                        Brunei Darussalam;
                     
                     
                        (2)
                        the Federated States of Micronesia;
                     
                     
                        (3)
                        the Republic of Kiribati;
                     
                     
                        (4)
                        the Republic of the Marshall Islands;
                     
                     
                        (5)
                        the Republic of Nauru; and
                     
                     
                        (6)
                        the Republic of Vanuatu.
                     
                  
                  
                     (b)
                     Report
                     Not later than 180 days after the date of the enactment of this Act, the Under Secretary shall submit to the congressional defense committees a report on the results of the study conducted under subsection (a).
                  
               
            
            
               C
               Other Matters
               
                  1741.
                  TECHNICAL AND CONFORMING AMENDMENTS
                  
                     (a)
                     Title 10, United States Code
                     Title 10, United States Code, is amended as follows:
                     
                        (1)
                        In the subtitle analysis for subtitle A—
                        
                           (A)
                           by striking the item relating to chapter 19 and inserting the following new item:
                           
                              
                                 
                                    19.
                                    Cyber and Information Operations Matters
                                    391
                                 
                              
                              ;
                           
                        
                        
                           (B)
                           by striking the item relating to chapter 25 and inserting the following new item:
                           
                              
                                 
                                    25.
                                    Electromagnetic Warfare
                                    500
                                 
                              
                              ;
                           
                        
                        
                           (C)
                           by striking the item relating to chapter 326 and inserting the following new item:
                           
                              
                                 
                                    327. Weapon Systems Development and Related Matters
                                    4401
                                 
                              
                              ; 
                           
                        
                        
                           (D)
                           in part V, by striking the second item relating to subpart F, including the items relating to chapters 321 through 327 appearing under the second item relating to subpart F;
                        
                        
                           (E)
                           by striking the item relating to chapter 363 and inserting the following new item:
                           
                              
                                 
                                    363.
                                    Prohibition and Penalties
                                    4651
                                 
                              
                              ; and
                           
                        
                        
                           (F)
                           by striking the item relating to chapter 367 and inserting the following new item:
                           
                              
                                 
                                    367. Other Administrative Matters
                                    4751
                                 
                              
                              .
                           
                        
                     
                     
                        (2)
                        In section 130i(j)(3)(C)(ix), by striking sections and inserting section.
                     
                     
                        (3)
                        In section 139a(h)—
                        
                           (A)
                           by striking out by Director and inserting out by the Director; and
                        
                        
                           (B)
                           by striking an any and inserting and any.
                        
                     
                     
                        (4)
                        In section 167b—
                        
                           (A)
                           in subsection (a)—
                           
                              (i)
                              in paragraph (1), by striking referred to as the cyber command
                                  and inserting referred to as the United States Cyber Command
                                 ; and
                           
                           
                              (ii)
                              in paragraph (2), by striking Cyber Command and inserting United States Cyber Command;
                           
                        
                        
                           (B)
                           in subsection (b), by striking Cyber Command each place it appears and inserting United States Cyber Command; and
                        
                        
                           (C)
                           in subsections (c) and (d)—
                           
                              (i)
                              by striking cyber command each place it appears and inserting United States Cyber Command;
                           
                           
                              (ii)
                              by striking such command each place it appears and inserting such Command; and
                           
                           
                              (iii)
                              by striking commander each place it appears and inserting Commander.
                           
                        
                     
                     
                        (5)
                        In section 222a(d), by striking the before all of the reports.
                     
                     
                        (6)
                        In section 381(b), by striking Defense—. and inserting Defense—.
                     
                     
                        (7)
                        In section 391b(e)(1)(B), by striking the colon and inserting a semicolon.
                     
                     
                        (8)
                        In section 392a(b)(3)(B)(ix), by inserting section before 932(c)(3).
                     
                     
                        (9)
                        In section 486, by redesignating subsection (e) as subsection (d).
                     
                     
                        (10)
                        In chapter 25, by redesignating sections 501 through 506 as sections 500a through 500f, respectively.
                     
                     
                        (11)
                        In section 510(h)(2)(B), by striking subchapters I and II and inserting subchapters II and III.
                     
                     
                        (12)
                        In section 520(a)(2), by striking armed forced and inserting armed force.
                     
                     
                        (13)
                        In section 578(g), by striking is approved and inserting as approved.
                     
                     
                        (14)
                        In section 624(e), by striking is approved and inserting as approved.
                     
                     
                        (15)
                        In section 628a—
                        
                           (A)
                           in subsection (e)(2), by striking apply to report and inserting apply to the report; and
                        
                        
                           (B)
                           in subsection (f), by striking section 20251 and inserting section 20252.
                        
                     
                     
                        (16)
                        In the table of sections at the beginning of chapter 40, by striking the item relating to section 711 and inserting the following:
                        
                           
                              710a. Parental leave for members of certain reserve components of the armed forces.
                           
                           .
                        
                     
                     
                        (17)
                        In chapter 40, by redesignating section 711 (relating to parental leave for members of certain reserve components of the armed forces) as section 710a.
                     
                     
                        (18)
                        In such section 710a, as so redesignated, in subsection (a)(2)—
                        
                           (A)
                           by striking subparagraph (A) each place it appears and inserting paragraph (1);
                        
                        
                           (B)
                           in subparagraph (B)—
                           
                              (i)
                              by striking clause (i) and inserting subparagraph (A); and
                           
                           
                              (ii)
                              by striking .; and inserting a period.
                           
                        
                     
                     
                        (19)
                        In section 714(b)(1)(A), by striking an serious and inserting a serious.
                     
                     
                        (20)
                        In section 937(a)(2)(B) (Art. 137), by inserting the before Space Force.
                     
                     
                        (21)
                        In section 1073c—
                        
                           (A)
                           by redesignating subsection (i) as subsection (j); and
                        
                        
                           (B)
                           by redesignating the second subsection (h) (relating to rule of construction regarding secretaries concerned and medical evaluation boards) as subsection (i).
                        
                     
                     
                        (22)
                        In section 1073d(b)(5)(C)(ii), by striking fulfil and inserting fulfill.
                     
                     
                        (23)
                        In section 1370—
                        
                           (A)
                           in subsection (b)(1), by striking or, Space Force and inserting or Space Force; and
                        
                        
                           (B)
                           in subsection (f)(6)—
                           
                              (i)
                              in subparagraph (A), by inserting a comma after Air Force; and
                           
                           
                              (ii)
                              in subparagraph (B), by inserting a comma after Navy.
                           
                        
                     
                     
                        (24)
                        In section 1465(e), by inserting shall before provide. 
                     
                     
                        (25)
                        In section 1448(d)(1), by striking paragraph (2)(B) and inserting paragraph (2).
                     
                     
                        (26)
                        In section 1558—
                        
                           (A)
                           by striking ,, each place it appears and inserting a comma; and
                        
                        
                           (B)
                           in subsection (b)(2)(A), by striking 14507 and inserting 14705.
                        
                     
                     
                        (27)
                        In section 1559(c)(3), by striking the the and inserting the.
                     
                     
                        (28)
                        In section 2031—
                        
                           (A)
                           in subsection (b)—
                           
                              (i)
                              in paragraph (1)(E), by striking .. and inserting a period; and
                           
                           
                              (ii)
                              in paragraph (2)(E)(vi), by striking report under subsection (i) and inserting report under subsection (j);
                           
                        
                        
                           (B)
                           by redesignating the second subsection (i) as subsection (j).
                        
                     
                     
                        (29)
                        In section 2107(a), by striking ,, and inserting a comma. 
                     
                     
                        (30)
                        In section 2200g(a), by striking Under Secretary for Defense and inserting Under Secretary of Defense.
                     
                     
                        (31)
                        In the section heading for section 2275b, by striking the period at the end.
                     
                     
                        (32)
                        In section 2285—
                        
                           (A)
                           by redesignating subsections (d) through (f) as subsections (c) through (e), respectively; and
                        
                        
                           (B)
                           by redesignating the second subsection (b) as subsection (f).
                        
                     
                     
                        (33)
                        In section 2688(g)(4), by striking installation energy.
                     
                     
                        (34)
                        In the table of sections at the beginning of subchapter III of chapter 169, by striking the item relating to section 2856 and inserting the following:
                        
                           
                              2856. Military unaccompanied housing: standards.
                           
                           .
                        
                     
                     
                        (35)
                        In section 2856(a), by striking ,. and inserting a period. 
                     
                     
                        (36)
                        In section 2911(c)(3), by striking installation energy.
                     
                     
                        (37)
                        In section 2922g(g)(1), by striking 2202 and inserting 2002.
                     
                     
                        (38)
                        In the chapter analysis for part V of subtitle A—
                        
                           (A)
                           by striking the item relating to chapter 207 and inserting the following new item:
                           
                              
                                 
                                    207.
                                    Budgeting and Appropriations
                                    3131
                                 
                              
                              ;
                           
                        
                        
                           (B)
                           by striking the item relating to chapter 225 and inserting the following new item:
                           
                              
                                 
                                    225. Reserved
                                    
                                    3271
                                 
                              
                              ;
                           
                        
                        
                           (C)
                           by striking the item relating to chapter 243 and inserting the following new item:
                           
                              
                                 
                                    243.
                                    Other Matters Relating to Awarding of Contracts
                                    3341
                                 
                              
                              ;
                           
                        
                        
                           (D)
                           by striking the item relating to chapter 272 and inserting the following new item:
                           
                              
                                 
                                    272.
                                    
                                       Reserved
                                    
                                    3721
                                 
                              
                              ;
                           
                        
                        
                           (E)
                           in the item relating to chapter 287, by striking 3961 and inserting 3901;
                        
                        
                           (F)
                           by inserting after the item relating to chapter 307 the following new items:
                           
                              
                                 Subpart F—MAJOR SYSTEMS, MAJOR DEFENSE ACQUISITION PROGRAMS, AND WEAPON SYSTEMS DEVELOPMENT
                                 
                                    321.
                                    General Matters
                                    4201
                                 
                                 
                                    322.
                                    Major Systems and Major Defense Acquisition Programs Generally
                                    4211
                                 
                                 
                                    323.
                                    Life-Cycle and Sustainment
                                    4321
                                 
                                 
                                    324.
                                    Selected Acquisition Reports
                                    4350
                                 
                                 
                                    325.
                                    Cost Growth-Unit Cost Reports (Nunn-McCurdy)
                                    4371
                                 
                                 
                                    326.
                                    Weapon Systems Development And Related Matters
                                    4401
                                 
                              
                              ; and
                           
                        
                        
                           (G)
                           by striking the item relating to chapter 363 and inserting the following new item:
                           
                              
                                 
                                    363.
                                    Prohibition and Penalties
                                    4651
                                 
                              
                              ;
                           
                        
                        
                           (H)
                           by striking the item relating to chapter 367 and inserting the following new item:
                           
                              
                                 
                                    367.
                                    Other Administrative Matters
                                    4751
                                 
                              
                              ;
                           
                        
                        
                           (I)
                           by striking the item relating to chapter 383 and inserting the following new item:
                           
                              
                                 
                                    383.
                                    Development, Application, and Support of Dual-use Technologies
                                    4831
                                 
                              
                              .
                           
                        
                     
                     
                        (39)
                        In section 3601(a)(2), by inserting note before prec..
                     
                     
                        (40)
                        In section 4902—
                        
                           (A)
                           in subsection (e)—
                           
                              (i)
                              in paragraph (1)(A)(iii), by inserting the before protege firm; and
                           
                           
                              (ii)
                              by redesignating paragraph (3) as subparagraph (C) of paragraph (1), and adjusting the margins accordingly; and
                           
                        
                        
                           (B)
                           in subsection (n)(5)(D), by inserting of 1938 after Act.
                        
                     
                     
                        (41)
                        In section 4127, by striking the section heading and inserting the following:
                        
                           
                              4127.
                              DEFENSE INNOVATION UNIT
                           
                           .
                        
                     
                     
                        (42)
                        In section 4273(d), by striking 4736 and inserting 4376.
                     
                     
                        (43)
                        In section 8581(a), by striking Provost and Academic Dean of the Postgraduate School and inserting Provost and Chief Academic Officer.
                     
                     
                        (44)
                        In section 15109, by striking (a) In general.—
                           .
                     
                     
                        (45)
                        In section 15110, by striking the title and inserting this subtitle. 
                     
                     
                        (46)
                        In the chapter analysis for part I of subtitle F, by striking the item relating to chapter 2013 and inserting the following new item:
                        
                           
                              
                                 2013. Voluntary Retirement for Length of Service
                                 20601
                              
                           
                           .
                        
                     
                     
                        (47)
                        In section 20106(d), by striking pertaining.
                     
                     
                        (48)
                        In section 20212(a)(1), by inserting the before Air Force.
                     
                     
                        (49)
                        In section 20231—
                        
                           (A)
                           in subsection (b)(5), by inserting section before 20232; and
                        
                        
                           (B)
                           in subsection (c)(2)(E), by inserting of the before Air Force.
                        
                     
                     
                        (50)
                        In section 20234(b), by inserting to after pursuant.
                     
                     
                        (51)
                        In section 20243(a)(3), by striking as a before and inserting before.
                     
                     
                        (52)
                        By redesignating the second section 20251 (relating to special selection boards; correction of errors) as section 20252.
                     
                     
                        (53)
                        In such section 20252 (relating to special selection boards; correction of errors), as so redesignated—
                        
                           (A)
                           in subsection (b)—
                           
                              (i)
                              in paragraph (2)—
                              
                                 (I)
                                 by striking ((1) and inserting (1); and
                              
                              
                                 (II)
                                 by striking sch and inserting such; and
                              
                           
                           
                              (ii)
                              in paragraph (4), by striking a officer and inserting an officer; and
                           
                        
                        
                           (B)
                           in subsection (f)(2), by striking of officer and inserting an officer.
                        
                     
                     
                        (54)
                        In the table of sections at the beginning of chapter 2009, by striking the item relating to he second section 20404 (relating to Force shaping authority) and inserting the following:
                        
                           
                              20405. Force shaping authority.
                           
                           .
                        
                     
                     
                        (55)
                        In section 20401(b), by inserting , and after 1174(b).
                     
                     
                        (56)
                        In section 20404, by striking space force both places it appears and inserting Space Force.
                     
                     
                        (57)
                        In section 20502—
                        
                           (A)
                           in the heading for subsection (c)—
                           
                              (i)
                              by striking 
                                    than an Officer Has Failed to Establish That the Officer Should Be Retained and inserting 
                                    that an officer has failed to establish that the officer should be retained
                                 ; and
                           
                           
                              (ii)
                              by moving paragraph (1) to appear in line with the subsection heading and adjusting the margins accordingly; and
                           
                        
                        
                           (B)
                           in the heading for subsection (d), by striking 
                                 than
                               and inserting 
                                 that
                              . 
                        
                     
                  
                  
                     (b)
                     National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2018
                     Effective as of December 12, 2017, and as if included therein as enacted, section 886(a)(1) of the National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2018 (Public Law 115–91) is amended by striking the term Procurement Administrative Lead Time or PALT, and inserting the term procurement administrative lead time or PALT,.
                  
                  
                     (c)
                     Coordination with other amendments made by this Act
                     For purposes of applying amendments made by provisions of this Act other than this section, the amendments made by this section shall be treated as having been enacted immediately before any such amendments by other provisions of this Act.
                  
               
               
                  1742.
                  EXPANSION OF ELIGIBILITY FOR SERVICEMEMBERS' GROUP LIFE INSURANCE
                  Section 1965 of title 38, United States Code, is amended, in paragraph (5)—
                  
                     (1)
                     in subparagraph (C), by striking ; and and inserting a semicolon;
                  
                  
                     (2)
                     in subparagraph (D), by striking field training or practice cruises and inserting advanced training (as such term is defined in section 2101 of title 10);
                  
                  
                     (3)
                     by redesignating subparagraph (D), as amended, as subparagraph (E); and
                  
                  
                     (4)
                     by inserting, after subparagraph (C), the following new subparagraph (D):
                     
                        
                           (D)
                           a Reserve—
                           
                              (i)
                              not otherwise described in this paragraph;
                           
                           
                              (ii)
                              enlisted under section 513 of title 10; and
                           
                           
                              (iii)
                              without regard to duty status; and
                           
                        
                        .
                     
                  
               
               
                  1743.
                  DISPLAY OF UNITED STATES FLAG FOR PATRIOTIC AND MILITARY OBSERVANCES
                  
                     (a)
                     Amendment to flag code
                     Section 8(c) of title 4, United States Code, is amended by inserting , except as may be necessary in limited circumstances and done in a respectful manner as part of a military or patriotic observance involving members of the Armed Forces after aloft and free.
                  
                  
                     (b)
                     Modification of Department of Defense policy
                     The Secretary of Defense shall—
                     
                        (1)
                        rescind the February 10, 2023, Department of Defense memorandum entitled, Clarification of Department of Defense Community Engagement Policy on Showing Proper Respect to the United States Flag; and
                     
                     
                        (2)
                        support military recruitment through public outreach events during patriotic and military observances, including the display of the United States flag regardless of size and position, including horizontally, provided that, in accordance with section 8(b) of title 4, United States Code, the flag never touch anything beneath it, such as the ground, the floor, water, or merchandise.
                     
                  
               
               
                  1744.
                  REDUCTION OF LIGHT POLLUTION AT DEPARTMENT OF DEFENSE FACILITIES
                  
                     (a)
                     Audit
                     
                        (1)
                        In general
                        Not later than 18 months after the date of the enactment of this Act, and concurrently with the study required under subsection (b), the Secretary of Defense shall complete an audit of light pollution at the facilities selected pursuant to paragraph (2). Under such audit, the Secretary shall—
                        
                           (A)
                           evaluate the lighting used at such facilities, with a focus on unshielded lighting;
                        
                        
                           (B)
                           determine whether any lighting fixtures are unnecessary;
                        
                        
                           (C)
                           determine whether any areas—
                           
                              (i)
                              are unnecessarily lit; or
                           
                           
                              (ii)
                              are overlit and are suitable for lower ambient light under United Facilities Criteria 3–530–01;
                           
                        
                        
                           (D)
                           identify any lighting or design trends across such facilities that contribute to light pollution; and
                        
                        
                           (E)
                           include a plan for reducing unnecessary lighting, overlit areas, and other sources of light pollution at such facilities.
                        
                     
                     
                        (2)
                        Audited facilities
                        The Secretary of Defense shall—
                        
                           (A)
                           select the Department of Defense facilities to be included in the audit under paragraph (1); and
                        
                        
                           (B)
                           to the extent practicable, ensure that the group of such selected facilities is a representative sample of Department of Defense facilities with respect to size, form, function, and geographic location.
                        
                     
                     
                        (3)
                        Plan deadline
                        Not later than 6 months after the audit required under paragraph (1) is completed, the Secretary of Defense shall implement the plan included in such audit.
                     
                  
                  
                     (b)
                     Study
                     Not later than 18 months after the date of the enactment of this Act, and concurrently with the audit required under subsection (a)(1), the Secretary of Defense shall conduct a study of light pollution at Department of Defense facilities. In conducting the study, the Secretary shall—
                     
                        (1)
                        examine how light pollution affects Department of Defense operations and readiness;
                     
                     
                        (2)
                        examine how light pollution affects biodiversity near Department of Defense facilities;
                     
                     
                        (3)
                        evaluate the effectiveness of compatible use buffer zones and other techniques already in use to mitigate light pollution and its harmful effects at Department of Defense facilities;
                     
                     
                        (4)
                        evaluate the necessity and purpose of any unshielded lights at Department of Defense facilities;
                     
                     
                        (5)
                        examine the use of additional light pollution mitigation technologies, processes, and policies to mitigate light pollution at Department of Defense facilities, including increasing the use of warm-light and low-output light-emitting diode lights and decreasing the use of cool-light and high-output light-emitting diode lights;
                     
                     
                        (6)
                        examine the feasability of establishing dark sky standards for Department of Defense facilities;
                     
                     
                        (7)
                        identify and analyze Federal, State, and local rules, regulations, and policies that support or inhibit the ability of the Secretary of Defense to mitigate light pollution at Department of Defense facilities; and
                     
                     
                        (8)
                        evaluate ongoing and potential additional initiatives at Department of Defense facilities to regulate lighting standards, including how such initiatives could be expanded without compromising national security or the mission, safety, or security of any such facility.
                     
                  
                  
                     (c)
                     Report
                     Not later than 6 months after the completion of the audit required under subsection (a)(1) and the study required under subsection (b), the Secretary of Defense shall submit to the Committee on Armed Services of the House of Representatives, the Committee on Natural Resources of the House of Representatives, the Committee on Armed Services of the Senate, and the Committee on Energy and Natural Resources of the Senate a report, which shall include—
                     
                        (1)
                        the results of the audit required under subsection (a)(1), including the methodology, findings, and recommendations of such audit;
                     
                     
                        (2)
                        the results of the study required under subsection (b), including unclassified examples of how light pollution affects Department of Defense operations and readiness;
                     
                     
                        (3)
                        identification of the funds, resources, and additional authorities required to execute any plans or recommendations developed pursuant to the study required under subsection (b);
                     
                     
                        (4)
                        recommendations for expanding or starting collaborative efforts with local communities that are located near Department of Defense facilities to limit light pollution;
                     
                     
                        (5)
                        recommendations for protecting biodiversity near Department of Defense facilities from light pollution without harming Department of Defense operations and readiness; and
                     
                     
                        (6)
                        recommendations on whether and, if applicable, how the Department of Defense could create and implement dark sky standards for Department of Defense facilities.
                     
                  
                  
                     (d)
                     Pilot projects
                     The Secretary of Defense may establish pilot projects to reduce light pollution at Department of Defense facilities based on the results of the study required under subsection (b). 
                  
                  
                     (e)
                     Department security
                     The Secretary of Defense shall ensure that the safety, security, and readiness of the Department of Defense is not negatively affected by—
                     
                        (1)
                        the audit required under subsection (a)(1);
                     
                     
                        (2)
                        the implementation of the plan included in such audit; or
                     
                     
                        (3)
                        any pilot project established under subsection (d).
                     
                  
                  
                     (f)
                     Definitions
                     In this section:
                     
                        (1)
                        The term dark sky standards means a group of policies, guidelines, or requirements that—
                        
                           (A)
                           reduce light pollution;
                        
                        
                           (B)
                           limit artificial light to areas where such light is intended to be used; and
                        
                        
                           (C)
                           protect the natural darkness of an outdoor location.
                        
                     
                     
                        (2)
                        The term Department of Defense facility means any structure, building, training area, or other infrastructure of a military installation, including a roadway or defense access road, and any other area on the grounds of a military installation that is under the jurisdiction of the Secretary of Defense or the Secretary of a military department.
                     
                     
                        (3)
                        The term light pollution means artificial light that emanates from buildings or other human-made structures that—
                        
                           (A)
                           expands onto adjacent properties and is unnecessary in regards to the purpose or use of such adjacent property; or
                        
                        
                           (B)
                           degrades the visibility of the sky at night. 
                        
                     
                  
               
               
                  1745.
                  STRATEGY TO IMPROVE ACTIVITIES RELATED TO COUNTERNARCOTICS AND COUNTER-TRANSNATIONAL ORGANIZED CRIME
                  
                     (a)
                     In general
                     
                        (1)
                        In general
                        Not later than 180 days after the date of the enactment of this Act, the Secretary of Defense, in consultation with each commander of a geographic combatant command and the Secretary of State, shall develop a strategy to improve activities and support to law enforcement related to counternarcotics. Such strategy shall—
                        
                           (A)
                           ensure the coordination and assessment of such activities carried out by the Department of Defense;
                        
                        
                           (B)
                           ensure policy updates to address ongoing and emerging counternarcotics threats; and
                        
                        
                           (C)
                           inform the coordination of program and budget requests by the Secretary.
                        
                     
                     
                        (2)
                        Elements
                        The strategy required by paragraph (1) shall include the following:
                        
                           (A)
                           A plan to establish or update command arrangement agreements to address existing and emerging narcotic substances of concern, including detection and monitoring of fentanyl, illicit fentanyl precursors, and fentanyl analogues.
                        
                        
                           (B)
                           Definitions for responsibilities of each command in the joint operation area as directed by the Department of Defense.
                        
                        
                           (C)
                           A plan for improved coordination between geographic combatant commands to ensure clear understanding of roles and responsibilities in overlapping areas of responsibility.
                        
                        
                           (D)
                           A plan to continue and improve coordination with foreign partners regarding intelligence sharing and interdiction activities.
                        
                        
                           (E)
                           Standardized operating procedures for command and control of counternarcotics within the Department of Defense.
                        
                        
                           (F)
                           Measurable outcomes to assess progress for each of the Departments counternarcotics strategic objectives.
                        
                        
                           (G)
                           A description of capability upgrades that would better enable the support of the interdiction of narcotics, including fentanyl, illicit fentanyl precursors, and fentanyl analogues, throughout the Department of Defense.
                        
                     
                  
                  
                     (b)
                     Report to Congress
                     
                        (1)
                        In general
                        Not later than June 1, 2025, the Secretary of Defense shall submit to the congressional defense committees a report that includes the comprehensive strategy as required by subsection (a).
                     
                     
                        (2)
                        Form
                        The report required under paragraph (1) of this subsection shall be submitted in unclassified form, but may include a classified annex.
                     
                  
               
               
                  1746.
                  RISK FRAMEWORK FOR FOREIGN MOBILE APPLICATIONS OF CONCERN
                  
                     (a)
                     In general
                     The Secretary of Defense shall—
                     
                        (1)
                        create categorical definitions of foreign mobile applications of concern with respect to personnel or operations of the Department of Defense, distinguishing among categories such as applications for shopping, social media, entertainment, or health; and
                     
                     
                        (2)
                        create a risk framework with respect to Department personnel or operations that assesses each foreign mobile application (or, if appropriate, grouping of similar such applications) that is from a country of concern for any potential impact on Departmental personnel and Departmental operations, incorporating considerations of—
                        
                           (A)
                           the manner and extent of data collection by the application;
                        
                        
                           (B)
                           the ability of the application to influence the user with the applications content to the detriment of the United States;
                        
                        
                           (C)
                           the manner and extent of foreign ownership or control of the application or data collected by the application;
                        
                        
                           (D)
                           any foreign government interests associated with the applications;
                        
                        
                           (E)
                           a software bill of materials with a focus on known or assessed malicious software embedded in the application, including in prior versions of the application or in other applications created by the owners of such application;
                        
                        
                           (F)
                           any known impact from prior use of the application to Department personnel or operations; and
                        
                        
                           (G)
                           the foreign mobile application of concern residing on a United States Government device or a personally owned device while in proximity to Department operations or activities or in the personal custody of personnel during Department sanctioned activities.
                        
                     
                  
                  
                     (b)
                     Considerations
                     In developing the categorical definitions and risk framework described in subsection (a), the Secretary of Defense—
                     
                        (1)
                        shall include in the risk framework foreign mobile applications of concern—
                        
                           (A)
                           from countries that the Secretary determines to be engaged in consistent, unauthorized conduct that is detrimental to the national security or foreign policy of the United States;
                        
                        
                           (B)
                           that are accessible to be downloaded from major mobile device application marketplaces by Department personnel; and
                        
                        
                           (C)
                           originating from, authored in, owned by, or otherwise associated with countries or entities that are designated on the list maintained and set forth in Supplement No. 4 to part 744 of the Export Administration Regulations;
                        
                     
                     
                        (2)
                        may include additional countries or individual foreign mobile applications with malicious and banned capabilities from other countries to the extent the Secretary determines appropriate; and
                     
                     
                        (3)
                        shall consider distinguishing within the risk framework the particular interests of a country described in paragraph (1) or (2) in the use of a foreign mobile application of concern of such country (regardless of device or owner) by—
                        
                           (A)
                           users located at facilities of the Department of Defense of varying levels of sensitivity;
                        
                        
                           (B)
                           users conducting authorized operations or movements of Department of Defense materiel; or
                        
                        
                           (C)
                           specific civilian employees of the Department or contractors whom the Secretary determines likely to be a target of a foreign actor.
                        
                     
                  
                  
                     (c)
                     Guidance and updates
                     The Secretary of Defense shall—
                     
                        (1)
                        issue guidance to all Department personnel incorporating the categories of foreign mobile applications of concern and advising how to mitigate the risks identified by the risk framework with respect to such applications;
                     
                     
                        (2)
                        routinely update the categorical definitions and risk framework promulgated pursuant to subsection (a), at least on an annual basis; and
                     
                     
                        (3)
                        prescribe, if feasible, regulations that appropriately mitigate risks from applications on devices provided by the Department of Defense or on any device used during an activity described in subsection (b)(3)(B) or at locations described under (b)(3)(A).
                     
                  
               
               
                  1747.
                  FEDERAL CONTRACTOR VULNERABILITY DISCLOSURE POLICY
                  
                     (a)
                     Recommendations
                     
                        (1)
                        In general
                        Not later than 180 days after the date of the enactment of this Act, the Director of the Office of Management and Budget, in consultation with the Director of the Cybersecurity and Infrastructure Security Agency, the National Cyber Director, the Director of the National Institute of Standards and Technology, and any other appropriate head of an Executive department, shall—
                        
                           (A)
                           review the Federal Acquisition Regulation contract requirements and language for contractor vulnerability disclosure programs; and
                        
                        
                           (B)
                           recommend updates to such requirements and language to the Federal Acquisition Regulation Council.
                        
                     
                     
                        (2)
                        Contents
                        The recommendations required by paragraph (1) shall include updates to such requirements designed to ensure that covered contractors implement a vulnerability disclosure policy consistent with NIST guidelines for contractors as required under section 5 of the IoT Cybersecurity Improvement Act of 2020 (15 U.S.C. 278g–3c; Public Law 116–207).
                     
                  
                  
                     (b)
                     Procurement requirements
                     Not later than 180 days after the date on which the recommended contract language developed pursuant to subsection (a) is received, the Federal Acquisition Regulation Council shall review the recommended contract language and update the FAR as necessary to incorporate requirements for covered contractors to receive information about a potential security vulnerability relating to an information system owned or controlled by a contractor, in performance of the contract.
                  
                  
                     (c)
                     Elements
                     The update to the FAR pursuant to subsection (b) shall—
                     
                        (1)
                        to the maximum extent practicable, align with the security vulnerability disclosure process and coordinated disclosure requirements relating to Federal information systems under sections 5 and 6 of the IoT Cybersecurity Improvement Act of 2020 (Public Law 116–207; 15 U.S.C. 278g–3c and 278g–3d); and
                     
                     
                        (2)
                        to the maximum extent practicable, be aligned with industry best practices and Standards 29147 and 30111 of the International Standards Organization (or any successor standard) or any other appropriate, relevant, and widely used standard.
                     
                  
                  
                     (d)
                     Waiver
                     The head of an agency may waive the security vulnerability disclosure policy requirement under subsection (b) if—
                     
                        (1)
                        the agency Chief Information Officer determines that the waiver is necessary in the interest of national security or research purposes; and
                     
                     
                        (2)
                        if, not later than 30 days after granting a waiver, such head submits a notification and justification (including information about the duration of the waiver) to the Committee on Oversight and Accountability of the House of Representatives and the Committee on Homeland Security and Governmental Affairs of the Senate.
                     
                  
                  
                     (e)
                     Department of Defense Supplement to the Federal Acquisition Regulation
                     
                        (1)
                        Review
                        Not later than 180 days after the date of the enactment of this Act, the Secretary of Defense shall review the Department of Defense Supplement to the Federal Acquisition Regulation contract requirements and language for contractor vulnerability disclosure programs and develop updates to such requirements designed to ensure that covered contractors implement a vulnerability disclosure policy consistent with NIST guidelines for contractors as required under section 5 of the IoT Cybersecurity Improvement Act of 2020 (15 U.S.C. 278g–3c; Public Law 116–207).
                     
                     
                        (2)
                        Revisions
                        Not later than 180 days after the date on which the review required under subsection (a) is completed, the Secretary shall revise the DFARS as necessary to incorporate requirements for covered contractors to receive information about a potential security vulnerability relating to an information system owned or controlled by a contractor, in performance of the contract.
                     
                     
                        (3)
                        Elements
                        The Secretary shall ensure that the revision to the DFARS described in this subsection is carried out in accordance with the requirements of paragraphs (1) and (2) of subsection (c).
                     
                     
                        (4)
                        Waiver
                        The Chief Information Officer of the Department of Defense may waive the security vulnerability disclosure policy requirements under paragraph (2) if the Chief Information Officer—
                        
                           (A)
                           determines that the waiver is necessary in the interest of national security or research purposes; and
                        
                        
                           (B)
                           not later than 30 days after granting a waiver, submits a notification and justification (including information about the duration of the waiver) to the Committees on Armed Services of the House of Representatives and the Senate.
                        
                     
                  
                  
                     (f)
                     Definitions
                     In this section: 
                     
                        (1)
                        The term agency has the meaning given the term in section 3502 of title 44, United States Code.
                     
                     
                        (2)
                        The term covered contractor means a contractor (as defined in section 7101 of title 41, United States Code)—
                        
                           (A)
                           whose contract is in an amount the same as or greater than the simplified acquisition threshold; or
                        
                        
                           (B)
                           that uses, operates, manages, or maintains a Federal information system (as defined by section 11331 of title 40, United Stated Code) on behalf of an agency.
                        
                     
                     
                        (3)
                        The term DFARS means the Department of Defense Supplement to the Federal Acquisition Regulation.
                     
                     
                        (4)
                        The term Executive department has the meaning given that term in section 101 of title 5, United States Code. 
                     
                     
                        (5)
                        The term FAR means the Federal Acquisition Regulation.
                     
                     
                        (6)
                        The term NIST means the National Institute of Standards and Technology.
                     
                     
                        (7)
                        The term OMB means the Office of Management and Budget. 
                     
                     
                        (8)
                        The term security vulnerability has the meaning given that term in section 2200 of the Homeland Security Act of 2002 (6 U.S.C. 650).
                     
                     
                        (9)
                        The term simplified acquisition threshold has the meaning given that term in section 134 of title 41, United States Code.
                     
                  
               
               
                  1748.
                  RECORDS RELATING TO TOWER 22 ATTACK
                  Not later than 180 days after the date of the enactment of this Act, the President shall make available to Congress all records relating to the January 28, 2024, attack on Tower 22 in Jordan.
               
               
                  1749.
                  PROHIBITION ON CONSTRUCTION OF GAZA PORT
                  None of the funds authorized to be appropriated or otherwise made available by this Act or by any provision of Public Law 118–50 may be made available for the acquisition, construction, installation, maintenance, or restoration of a temporary or permanent pier, port, or similar structure located in Gaza or off the western coast of Gaza in the Mediterranean Sea, or for the deployment of any equipment or members of the Armed Forces to Gaza relating to such structure.
               
               
                  1750.
                  COPYRIGHT PROTECTION FOR CERTAIN LITERARY WORKS OF MILITARY MEMBERS OF THE FACULTY OF CERTAIN INSTITUTIONS
                  Section 105(d) of title 17, United States Code, is amended—
                  
                     (1)
                     in paragraph (1), by striking civilian; and
                  
                  
                     (2)
                     in paragraph (2), by adding at the end the following: 
                     
                        
                           (O)
                           Uniformed Services University of the Health Sciences. 
                        
                        .
                     
                  
               
               
                  1751.
                  REVOCATION OF SECURITY CLEARANCES FOR CERTAIN PERSONS
                  
                     (a)
                     Prohibition
                     Notwithstanding any other provision of law, the Secretary of Defense shall suspend or revoke a security clearance or access to classified information for any retired or separated member of the uniformed service or civilian employee of the Department of Defense who engages in the activities described in subsection (b).
                  
                  
                     (b)
                     Activities described
                     The activities described in this subsection are lobbying activities or lobbying contacts for or on behalf of any entity that is—
                     
                        (1)
                        identified by the Secretary of Defense in the most recent report submitted under section 1260H(a) of the William M. (Mac) Thornberry National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2021 (10 U.S.C. 113 note) as a Chinese military company;
                     
                     
                        (2)
                        included in the Non-SDN Chinese Military-Industrial Complex Companies List published by the Department of the Treasury;
                     
                     
                        (3)
                        owned by or controlled by an agency or instrumentality of any person described in paragraphs (1) or (2); or
                     
                     
                        (4)
                        an agency or instrumentality of any person described in paragraphs (1) or (2).
                     
                  
                  
                     (c)
                     Waiver
                     The Secretary of Defense may, for periods not to exceed 180 days, waive the application of the prohibition in subsection (a) for an individual if the Secretary certifies to the congressional defense committees that doing so is in the national security interest of the United States.
                  
                  
                     (d)
                     Definitions
                     In this section:
                     
                        (1)
                        The term lobbying activities has the meaning given such term in section 3 of the Lobbying Disclosure Act of 1995 (2 U.S.C. 1602).
                     
                     
                        (2)
                        The term lobbying contact has the meaning given such term in section 3 of the Lobbying Disclosure Act of 1995 (2 U.S.C. 1602) except that clause (iv) of paragraph (8)(B)(iv) of such section shall not apply.
                     
                  
               
               
                  1752.
                  UNITED STATES-ISRAEL COOPERATION ON SPACE MATTERS
                  Congress expresses support for cooperation between the United States and Israel on space matters, including—
                  
                     (1)
                     between the National Aeronautics and Space Administration (NASA) and the Israel Space Agency; and
                  
                  
                     (2)
                     between the United States Air Force and the Israeli Air Force’s newly created Space Force in the areas of research, development, test, and evaluation.
                  
               
               
                  1753.
                  STATE AND LOCAL LAW ENFORCEMENT ACCESS TO LIFESAVING FEDERAL EQUIPMENT
                  
                     (a)
                     Unenforceability of certain regulations unless enacted into law
                     
                        (1)
                        In general
                        No regulation, rule, guidance, policy, or recommendation issued on or after May 15, 2015, that limits the sale, donation, or transfer of property of the Federal Government pursuant to Executive Order 13688 (entitled Federal Support for Local Law Enforcement Equipment Acquisition) or Executive Order 14074 (entitled Advancing Effective, Accountable Policing and Criminal Justice Practices To Enhance Public Trust and Public Safety), including excess property of the Department of Defense, to State and local agencies for law enforcement activities (whether pursuant to section 2576a of title 10, United States Code, or any other provision of law, or as a condition on the use of Federal funds) shall have any force or effect after the date of the enactment of this Act unless enacted into law by Congress.
                     
                     
                        (2)
                        Prohibition on use of funds To enforce regulations
                        No agency or instrumentality of the Federal Government may use any Federal funds, fees, or resources to implement or carry out a regulation, rule, guidance, policy, or recommendation issued as described in paragraph (1) that is not enacted into law by Congress.
                     
                     
                        (3)
                        Limitations on subsequent executive orders
                        In accordance with this subsection, the President may not reinstate any section of the Executive orders listed in paragraph (1) nor establish any substantially similar Executive order regarding the transfer of equipment to law enforcement under section 2576a of title 10, United States Code.
                     
                  
                  
                     (b)
                     Return or reissue of equipment recalled or seized pursuant to regulations
                     Any property recalled or seized on or after May 15, 2015, pursuant to a regulation, rule, guidance, policy, or recommendation issued as described in subsection (a)(1) shall be returned, replaced, or re-issued to the agency from which recalled or seized, at no cost to such agency, as soon as practicable after the date of the enactment of this Act, if—
                     
                        (1)
                        such agency requests that the property be returned, replaced, or re-issued;
                     
                     
                        (2)
                        such agency satisfies the conditions set forth under 2576a of title 10, United States Code, authorizing transfer and use of such property, if applicable; and
                     
                     
                        (3)
                        the property is in stock and available for transfer to the agency to be used for law enforcement activities at the time the agency submits a request referred to in paragraph (1). 
                     
                  
               
               
                  1754.
                  LIMITATION ON FUNDING ACTIVITIES PERFORMED BY PERSONS IN DRAG
                  None of the funds authorized to be appropriated by this Act may be obligated or expended for a drag show, drag queen story hour, or similar event. 
               
               
                  1755.
                  PROHIBITION ON DIVERTING FUNDING FROM THE INDO-PACIFIC REGION
                  None of the funds authorized to be appropriated or otherwise made available by this Act may be made available to carry out any provision of law in a manner that would divert away funds previously appropriated as of the date of the enactment of this Act for assistance for the Indo-Pacific region through September 30, 2025.
               
               
                  1756.
                  DEVELOPMENT OF NATIONAL STRATEGY
                  
                     (a)
                     In general
                     The President shall, in consultation with the Administrator of the Federal Emergency Management Agency, the Secretary of Energy, the Chief of the National Guard Bureau, the Chief of Engineers of the Army Corps of Engineers, the Assistant Secretary of the Office of Nuclear Energy of the Department of Energy, the Under Secretary of Defense for Research and Engineering, the Chairman of the Nuclear Regulatory Commission, and the Deputy Assistant Secretary for the Office of Reactor Fleet and Advanced Reactor Deployment of the Department of Energy, develop a national strategy to utilize microreactors to assist with natural disaster response efforts.
                  
                  
                     (b)
                     Submission to Congress
                     Not later than 1 year after the date of enactment of this Act, and every 2 years thereafter, the President shall submit to the appropriate congressional committees a comprehensive national strategy developed under subsection (a).
                  
                  
                     (c)
                     Contents of national strategy
                     A national strategy developed under subsection (a) shall include the following:
                     
                        (1)
                        Evaluation of existing diesel deployment efforts
                        An assessment of the effectiveness of utilizing diesel generators to assist with natural disaster response efforts, which such assessment shall include—
                        
                           (A)
                           information on the current use of diesel generators to assist with natural disaster response efforts, including—
                           
                              (i)
                              the prevalence of deploying diesel generators around the United States as the sole power source to assist with natural disaster response efforts;
                           
                           
                              (ii)
                              the average number of diesel generators deployed in natural disaster response efforts based on the type of natural disaster, the severity of the natural disaster, and the location of the natural disaster;
                           
                           
                              (iii)
                              where Federal, State, and local governments store diesel generators;
                           
                           
                              (iv)
                              how diesel generators are transported to areas affected by a natural disaster;
                           
                           
                              (v)
                              any logistical concerns with refueling diesel generators over an extended period of time;
                           
                           
                              (vi)
                              the potential to utilize accessory equipment that is traditionally connected to diesel generators to help provide electricity to the area in need; and
                           
                           
                              (vii)
                              any other information that is necessary to understand the role of diesel generators used to assist with natural disaster response efforts;
                           
                        
                        
                           (B)
                           how the effect on the environment of utilizing diesel generators to assist with natural disaster response efforts compares to the estimated effect on the environment of utilizing microreactors to assist with the same natural disaster response efforts; and
                        
                        
                           (C)
                           the concerns to public safety when deploying diesel generators in natural disaster response efforts.
                        
                     
                     
                        (2)
                        Goals, objectives, and priorities
                        A comprehensive, research-based, and long-term discussion of goals, objectives, and priorities for utilizing microreactors instead of diesel generators to assist with natural disaster response efforts.
                     
                     
                        (3)
                        Department of Defense Analysis
                        An analysis of—
                        
                           (A)
                           how the efforts of the Department of Defense to develop microreactor technology for operational uses could be used to inform the development of microreactors to assist with natural disaster response efforts, including any recommendations and additional direction that may be necessary for such expedited deployment;
                        
                        
                           (B)
                           how the Department of Defense can most effectively translate and implement the lessons learned from its operations in the field to assist with natural disaster response efforts, including how operations in the field related to microreactors can be used to answer broad questions for the nuclear industry and for future issues relating to fuel reliability, energy supply chain issues, reducing diesel convoy causalities, and supporting other global humanitarian needs; and
                        
                        
                           (C)
                           whether a demonstration program for microreactors is needed prior to deploying microreactors for natural disaster response efforts, based on the analysis provided by subparagraphs (A) and (B).
                        
                     
                     
                        (4)
                        Recommendations for the Nuclear Regulatory Commission
                        Recommendations on how the Nuclear Regulatory Commission can work with other Federal agencies to expedite—
                        
                           (A)
                           the approval of designs for microreactors; and
                        
                        
                           (B)
                           issuing licenses for the utilization, transportation, and operation of microreactors in rapid deployment scenarios, such as natural disaster response efforts.
                        
                     
                     
                        (5)
                        Utilizing Feasibility Studies
                        An analysis of available academic literature and studies, including site feasibility studies, to identify high risk areas that are prone to natural disasters that should be prioritized during emergency planning.
                     
                     
                        (6)
                        Strategic considerations when deploying microreactors
                        An assessment of various strategic considerations to improve the efficiency, timeliness, and cost-effectiveness of deploying microreactors to assist with natural disaster response efforts, including—
                        
                           (A)
                           whether the Department of Defense, the Federal Emergency Management Agency, or any other government entity should build, own, or operate microreactors that are used to assist with natural disaster response efforts, including whether it would be viable to lease microreactors from private industry and whether it would be viable to facilitate public-private partnerships to find cost effective options to utilize microreactors for natural disaster response efforts;
                        
                        
                           (B)
                           the recommended number of individuals charged with the usage, maintenance, and upkeep of the microreactors, including the recommended qualifications, training requirements, availability requirements, and oversight responsibility of such individuals;
                        
                        
                           (C)
                           the number of microreactors needed, initially and in the long-term, to effectively respond to a natural disaster based on past natural disaster trends and the specific geographic location of the area;
                        
                        
                           (D)
                           where microreactors used to assist with natural disaster response efforts would be stored, including information on—
                           
                              (i)
                              how different microreactor storage locations may affect swift and economically feasible natural disaster response efforts;
                           
                           
                              (ii)
                              the feasibility of utilizing already-built facilities instead of constructing new microreactor storage facilities;
                           
                           
                              (iii)
                              the cost of constructing new microreactor storage facilities;
                           
                           
                              (iv)
                              how to properly store the microreactor when not being utilized for natural disaster response efforts; and
                           
                           
                              (v)
                              potential storage locations, such as—
                              
                                 (I)
                                 the Strategic Alliance for FLEX Emergency Response locations in Memphis, Tennessee and Phoenix, Arizona; and
                              
                              
                                 (II)
                                 Department of Defense bases;
                              
                           
                        
                        
                           (E)
                           how to maintain a microreactor and replace, store, and dispose of fuel used by a microreactor, including whether public-private partnerships may be used to assist with such maintenance, replacement, storage, and disposal;
                        
                        
                           (F)
                           when a diesel generator will suffice in the event of a natural disaster of limited proportions, in comparison to utilizing microreactors to assist with natural disaster response efforts;
                        
                        
                           (G)
                           which States and territories and possessions of the United States that are prone to natural disasters, such as hurricanes, should be prioritized when initially selecting locations to deploy microreactors to assist with natural disaster response efforts;
                        
                        
                           (H)
                           the methods, capabilities, and costs associated with transporting microreactors that were or may be impacted by natural disasters, including considerations about transporting new microreactors, in addition to microreactors that have been put to use, and any regulatory or legal issues that may arise during the transportation;
                        
                        
                           (I)
                           any other strategic considerations that should be taken into account before deploying microreactors to assist with natural disaster response efforts;
                        
                        
                           (J)
                           how to integrate microreactors into existing electrical grids in emergency situations, including how grid connection points, microgrid limits, site load limits, existing infrastructure, and the standard process for grid interconnections may impact the integration of microreactors into existing electrical grid;
                        
                        
                           (K)
                           whether microreactors will be susceptible to cyberattacks, including whether autonomous control will impact the microreactor’s cyberattack susceptibility and what systems or microreactor designs would be ideal for combating such cyberattacks during a natural disaster response effort; and
                        
                        
                           (L)
                           how the weight of a microreactor, compared to the weight of a diesel generator, affects deploying microreactors and diesel generators to assist with natural disaster response efforts.
                        
                     
                     
                        (7)
                        Deployment challenges and barriers
                        An assessment of—
                        
                           (A)
                           the challenges and barriers to deploying microreactors to assist with natural disaster response efforts; and
                        
                        
                           (B)
                           solutions to address each such challenge and barrier.
                        
                     
                     
                        (8)
                        Review of and recommendations for legislation
                        
                           (A)
                           Review
                           A review of existing law that can be used to ease the burden of utilizing microreactors to assist with natural disaster response efforts, including the Robert T. Stafford Disaster Relief and Emergency Assistance Act (42 U.S.C. 5121 et seq.), the Energy Policy Act of 2005 (42 U.S.C. 15801 et seq.), the Atomic Energy Act of 1954 (42 U.S.C. 2011 et seq.), the Nuclear Energy Innovation and Modernization Act (42 U.S.C. 2215 note), and any other relevant law.
                        
                        
                           (B)
                           Recommendations
                           Recommendations for legislation to—
                           
                              (i)
                              assist with—
                              
                                 (I)
                                 deploying microreactors to assist with natural disaster response efforts;
                              
                              
                                 (II)
                                 the maintenance and upkeep of such microreactors; and
                              
                              
                                 (III)
                                 the initial and long-term storage of such microreactors; and
                              
                           
                           
                              (ii)
                              pay for the activities described in subclauses (I) through (III) of clause (i).
                           
                        
                     
                     
                        (9)
                        Partnerships to enhance natural disaster response efforts
                        An assessment about—
                        
                           (A)
                           the current status of any collaboration between the National Guard, Federal Emergency Management Agency, and the Army Corps of Engineers during natural disaster response efforts;
                        
                        
                           (B)
                           the specific roles of each entity specified in subparagraph (A) (disaggregated, in the case of the National Guard, by State and by military department) during a natural disaster response effort, and their respective roles when participating in natural disaster response efforts;
                        
                        
                           (C)
                           the current emergency responsibilities of the Department of Energy and the Nuclear Regulatory Commission that relate to deploying microreactors during natural disaster response efforts;
                        
                        
                           (D)
                           the potential opportunity to set up an annual listening group session or consortium to provide all the necessary information needed to deploy microreactors to assist with natural disaster response efforts and to ensure a smooth transition from the use of diesel generators to the use of microreactors to assist with natural disaster response efforts;
                        
                        
                           (E)
                           how the Emergency Management Assistance Compact, consented to by Congress in the joint resolution entitled Joint resolution granting the consent of Congress to the Emergency Management Assistance Compact (Public Law 104–321), can be utilized to allow States to allocate their unused microreactors to other States that are in need of microreactors to assist with natural disaster response efforts; and
                        
                        
                           (F)
                           how to improve the collaboration between Federal, State, and local government entities and private entities when deploying microreactors to assist with natural disaster response efforts.
                        
                     
                     
                        (10)
                        Utilizing microreactors to charge electric vehicles
                        Recommendations on how to utilize microreactors as charging stations for electric vehicles in the event of a mass evacuation resulting from a natural disaster, including recommendations on—
                        
                           (A)
                           how to deploy microreactors to charge electric vehicles before an evacuation;
                        
                        
                           (B)
                           the primary transportation corridors that would be used for such a mass evacuation;
                        
                        
                           (C)
                           how many microreactors would be needed to charge electric vehicles during such a mass evacuation, based on the size and population of the State in which the mass evacuation occurs;
                        
                        
                           (D)
                           the best placement of microreactors throughout the primary transportation corridors to ensure a smooth electric vehicle charging process and subsequent evacuation;
                        
                        
                           (E)
                           any potential public-private partnerships that would be useful in utilizing microreactors to charge electric vehicles during a mass evacuation, including an estimate of the costs that would be associated with establishing these partnerships;
                        
                        
                           (F)
                           how to—
                           
                              (i)
                              transport microreactors to mass evacuation locations along primary transportation corridors for purposes of charging electric vehicles; and
                           
                           
                              (ii)
                              pay for such transportation; and
                           
                        
                        
                           (G)
                           any other topic related to subparagraphs (A) through (F).
                        
                     
                     
                        (11)
                        Deploying microreactors to United States territories and possessions
                        Recommendations on deploying microreactors to territories and possessions of the United States to assist with natural disaster response efforts.
                     
                     
                        (12)
                        Using military equipment with nuclear capabilities
                        Recommendations on how to, in the event of a natural disaster and when the deployment of a microreactor is not timely or ideal for the circumstance, deploy military equipment of the United States with nuclear capabilities, such as nuclear aircraft carriers and nuclear submarines, to provide temporary electricity to an area severely impacted by a natural disaster.
                     
                     
                        (13)
                        Budget priorities
                        A multiyear budget plan that identifies the necessary resources to successfully carry out the recommendations and implement any lessons learned from the assessments and other analysis under this subsection.
                     
                     
                        (14)
                        Technology enhancements
                        An analysis of current and developing ways to leverage existing and innovative technology to improve the effectiveness of efforts to deploy microreactors to assist with natural disaster response efforts.
                     
                     
                        (15)
                        Using innovative tools to predict natural disasters
                        A description of how to utilize innovative technology, such as artificial intelligence and predictive meteorological tools, to prepare for the utilization of microreactors before a natural disaster.
                     
                     
                        (16)
                        Floating nuclear barges
                        An assessment of how floating nuclear barges compare to using portable microreactors, including—
                        
                           (A)
                           the advantages and disadvantages of using a portable microreactor compared to a floating nuclear barge; and
                        
                        
                           (B)
                           an identification of scenarios during which a floating nuclear barge would be preferred over a portable microreactor.
                        
                     
                  
                  
                     (d)
                     Definitions
                     In this section:
                     
                        (1)
                        Appropriate congressional committees
                        The term appropriate congressional committees means—
                        
                           (A)
                           the Committee on Energy and Commerce, the Committee on Armed Services, the Committee on Oversight and Accountability, and the Committee on Science, Space, and Technology of the House of Representatives; and
                        
                        
                           (B)
                           the Committee on Energy and Natural Resources, the Committee on Armed Services, the Committee on Environment and Public Works, and the Committee on Commerce, Science, and Transportation of the Senate.
                        
                     
                     
                        (2)
                        Local government
                        The term local government has the meaning given such term in section 102 of the Robert T. Stafford Disaster Relief and Emergency Assistance Act (42 U.S.C. 5122).
                     
                     
                        (3)
                        Microreactor
                        The term microreactor means a nuclear reactor, including a portable nuclear reactor, that has an electricity generating capacity of not more than 20 megawatts of thermal energy.
                     
                     
                        (4)
                        Natural disaster
                        The term natural disaster has the meaning given the term Major disaster in section 102 of the Robert T. Stafford Disaster Relief and Emergency Assistance Act (42 U.S.C. 5122), except that the term natural disaster does not include a wildfire.
                     
                     
                        (5)
                        Natural disaster response effort
                        The term natural disaster response effort means a circumstance in which a State or local government requests assistance under the Robert T. Stafford Disaster Relief and Emergency Assistance Act (42 U.S.C. 5121 et seq.), including assistance to address the loss of primary electrical capacity as a result of a natural disaster.
                     
                     
                        (6)
                        State
                        The term State means a State of the United States and the District of Columbia.
                     
                  
               
               
                  1757.
                  STATEMENT OF POLICY RELATING TO REPORTING REQUIREMENTS OF CHINA’S MARITIME SAFETY ADMINISTRATION
                  
                     (a)
                     In general
                     It is the policy of the United States to reject as a violation of international law and United States sovereignty any attempt by China’s Maritime Safety Administration to compel United States vessels to adhere to any reporting requirements listed within China’s Maritime Traffic Safety Law, including any requirements to require a vessel to declare—
                     
                        (1)
                        the vessel’s name and number;
                     
                     
                        (2)
                        the vessel’s satellite telephone number;
                     
                     
                        (3)
                        the vessel’s position and recent locations; and 
                     
                     
                        (4)
                        the vessel’s cargo.
                     
                  
                  
                     (b)
                     Applicability
                     Subsection (a) applies to all maritime claims made by the People’s Republic of China that the United States has rejected, to include virtually all of China’s claims within the Nine-Dash Line.
                  
               
               
                  1758.
                  REPORT ON MILITARY SPOUSE SECURITY CLEARANCE
                  Not later than May 1, 2025, the Secretary of Defense, in consultation with the Director of National Intelligence, shall provide a report to Congress on the technical, operational, human resources, and legal challenges that would result from accelerating security clearance reviews of military spouses by using information, including address verification, from the spousal review of their connected service member’s security clearance, as well as the anticipated benefits of such a change. 
               
               
                  1759.
                  SENSE OF CONGRESS REGARDING FEASIBILITY STUDY FOR BLUE GRASS CHEMICAL AGENT-DESTRUCTION PILOT PLANT
                  
                     (a)
                     Findings
                     Congress makes the following findings:
                     
                        (1)
                        The Joint Explanatory Statement to accompany the James M. Inhofe National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2023 (Public Law 117–263) directed the Secretary of Defense, in consultation with the Secretary of the Army, to conduct a feasibility study to assess potential missions, plants, or industries feasible for Army or Department of Defense needs at the Blue Grass Army Depot following the completion of the mission at the Blue Grass Chemical Agent-Destruction Pilot Plant.
                     
                     
                        (2)
                        House Report 118-301 to accompany the National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2024 (Public Law 118–31) directed the Secretary of the Army, in coordination with the Commanding General, Army Materiel Command and the Assistant Secretary of the Army for Acquisition, Logistics, and Technology to provide a briefing on the costs and estimated funding profile associated with the organic industrial base modernization strategy and the efforts required to support opportunities for augmenting the organic industrial base at Blue Grass Army Depot.
                     
                  
                  
                     (b)
                     Sense of Congress
                     It is the sense of Congress that the Department of Defense and the Secretary of the Army, in coordination with the Commanding General of the Army Materiel Command and the Assistant Secretary of the Army for Acquisition, Logistics, and Technology, should work with Congress and the local community near the Blue Grass Army Depot to build upon the findings of the feasibility study and House Report referred to in subsection (a).
                  
               
               
                  1760.
                  REWARDS FOR INFORMATION REGARDING LEADERS OF HAMAS
                  
                     (a)
                     In general
                     The Director of the Defense Intelligence Agency and the Secretary of Defense shall advocate in their respective roles on the Foreign Threat Intelligence Committee to request the Rewards for Justice Program to offer $25,000,000 each in incentives for information regarding Hamas terrorists Yahya Sinwar and Mohammed Deif. 
                  
                  
                     (b)
                     Other rewards
                     The Director of the Defense Intelligence Agency and the Secretary of Defense should advocate for significant rewards for information regarding other leaders Iran-backed entities designated as Foreign Terrorist Organizations under section 219 of the Immigration and Nationality Act (8 U.S.C. 1189) or Specially Designated Global Terrorists under section 594.310 of title 31, Code of Federal Regulations. 
                  
               
               
                  1761.
                  PROHIBITION ON FUNDING FOR THE COUNTERING EXTREMIST ACTIVITY WORKING GROUP
                  No Federal funds are authorized to be appropriated or otherwise made available for the Countering Extremist Activity Working Group or to implement any recommendations of such group.
               
               
                  1762.
                  REPORT ON THE USE OF MAJOR NON-NATO ALLY STATUS FOR KENYA
                  
                     (a)
                     Sense of Congress
                     It is the sense of Congress that—
                     
                        (1)
                        the designation of a country as a major non-NATO ally is intended to facilitate an increased security relationship between the United States and the designated country and is not intended to be merely a symbolic gesture;
                     
                     
                        (2)
                        Kenya is an increasingly important security partner in East Africa and the Western Indian Ocean; and
                     
                     
                        (3)
                        major non-NATO ally status for Kenya should be utilized to facilitate increased security cooperation with Kenya to advance our shared security priorities.
                     
                  
                  
                     (b)
                     In general
                     Not later than 180 days after the date of the enactment of this Act, the Secretary of Defense, in consultation with the Secretary of State, shall submit a classified report, along with an unclassified summary, to the appropriate congressional committees, which shall—
                     
                        (1)
                        identify all opportunities to increase security cooperation with Kenya as a result of its major non-NATO ally designation;
                     
                     
                        (2)
                        assess the feasibility of implementing the identified opportunities, including cost, timeline, and availability of defense articles as applicable; and
                     
                     
                        (3)
                        assess the priority of identified opportunities based on the Kenyan government’s requests and input and the impact on advancing the national security interests of the United States.
                     
                  
                  
                     (c)
                     Supplemental reports
                     On the date that is 180 days after the report required under subsection (b) is submitted, and annually thereafter, the Secretary of Defense, in consultation with the Secretary of State, shall submit a classified annex, along with an unclassified summary, to the appropriate congressional committees containing a report that identifies all requests by the Kenyan government on cooperation on activities covered under the major non-NATO ally status, including—
                     
                        (1)
                        a detailed summary of each request, including cost and the defense articles requested;
                     
                     
                        (2)
                        whether those requests were approved or denied; and
                     
                     
                        (3)
                        an explanation for why each request was approved or denied.
                     
                  
                  
                     (d)
                     Appropriate congressional committees defined
                     In this section, the term appropriate congressional committees means—
                     
                        (1)
                        the Committee on Armed Services of the Senate;
                     
                     
                        (2)
                        the Committee on Foreign Relations of the Senate;
                     
                     
                        (3)
                        the Committee on Armed Services of the House of Representatives; and
                     
                     
                        (4)
                        the Committee on Foreign Affairs of the House of Representatives.
                     
                  
               
               
                  1763.
                  LIMITATION ON DISPLAYING IN CERTAIN PUBLIC AREAS CUT FLOWERS OR GREENS NOT PRODUCED IN THE UNITED STATES
                  
                     (a)
                     In general
                     A cut flower or a cut green may not be officially displayed in any public area of a building of the Executive Office of the President or of the Department of State or of the Department of Defense unless the cut flower or cut green is produced in the United States.
                  
                  
                     (b)
                     Rule of construction
                     The limitation in subsection (a) may not be construed to apply to any cut flower or cut green used by a Federal officer or employee for personal display. 
                  
                  
                     (c)
                     Definitions
                     In this section:
                     
                        (1)
                        The term cut flower means a flower removed from a living plant for decorative use.
                     
                     
                        (2)
                        The term cut green means a green, foliage, or branch removed from a living plant for decorative use.
                     
                     
                        (3)
                        The term produced in the United States means grown in—
                        
                           (A)
                           any of the several States;
                        
                        
                           (B)
                           the District of Columbia;
                        
                        
                           (C)
                           a territory or possession of the United States; or
                        
                        
                           (D)
                           an area subject to the jurisdiction of a federally recognized Indian Tribe.
                        
                     
                  
                  
                     (d)
                     Effective date
                     This section shall take effect on the date that is 1 year after the date of the enactment of this section.
                  
               
               
                  1764.
                  UNITED STATES-ISRAEL EMERGING TECHNOLOGY CAPABILITIES COOPERATION
                  Subtitle G of title XII of the National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2016 is amended by inserting after section 1279 (22 U.S.C. 8606 note) the following:
                  
                     
                        1279A.
                        UNITED STATES-ISRAEL EMERGING TECHNOLOGY CAPABILITIES COOPERATION
                        
                           (a)
                           Statement of policy
                           It is the policy of the United States to support and encourage further defense collaboration with Israel in areas of emerging technologies capable of enabling the warfare capabilities of both the United States and Israel to meet emerging defense challenges, including but not limited to the areas of artificial intelligence, cybersecurity, robotics, quantum and automation.
                        
                        
                           (b)
                           Authority To Establish Emerging Defense Technology Capabilities Program With Israel
                           
                              (1)
                              In general
                              The Secretary of Defense, upon request of the Ministry of Defense of Israel and in consultation with the Secretary of State and the Director of National Intelligence, is authorized to carry out research, development, test, and evaluation, on a joint basis with Israel, in areas of emerging technologies capable of enabling the warfare capabilities of both the United States and Israel to meet emerging defense challenges, including the areas of artificial intelligence, cybersecurity, robotics, quantum and automation. Any activities carried out pursuant to such authority shall be conducted in a manner that appropriately protects sensitive information and United States and Israel national security interests.
                           
                           
                              (2)
                              Report
                              The activities described in paragraph (1) and subsection (c) may be carried out after the Secretary of Defense submits to the appropriate committees of Congress a report setting forth the following:
                              
                                 (A)
                                 A memorandum of agreement between the United States and Israel regarding sharing of research and development costs for the capabilities described in paragraph (1), and any supporting documents.
                              
                              
                                 (B)
                                 A certification that the memorandum of agreement—
                                 
                                    (i)
                                    requires sharing of costs of projects, including in-kind support, between the United States and Israel;
                                 
                                 
                                    (ii)
                                    establishes a framework to negotiate the rights to any intellectual property developed under the memorandum of agreement; and
                                 
                                 
                                    (iii)
                                    requires the United States Government to receive semiannual reports on expenditure of funds, if any, by the Government of Israel, including a description of what the funds have been used for, when funds were expended, and an identification of entities that expended the funds.
                                 
                              
                           
                        
                        
                           (c)
                           Annual limitation on amount
                           The amount of support provided under this section in any year may not exceed $47,500,000.
                        
                        
                           (d)
                           Lead agency
                           The Secretary of Defense shall designate the Irregular Warfare Technology Support Directorate as the lead agency of the Department of Defense in carrying out this section.
                        
                        
                           (e)
                           Semiannual Reports
                           The Secretary of Defense shall submit to the appropriate committees of Congress on a semiannual basis a report that contains a copy of the most recent semiannual report provided by the Government of Israel to the Department of Defense pursuant to subsection (b)(2)(B)(iii). 
                        
                        
                           (f)
                           Appropriate Committees of Congress Defined
                           In this section, the term appropriate committees of Congress means—
                           
                              (1)
                              the Committee on Armed Services, the Committee on Foreign Relations, the Committee on Homeland Security and Governmental Affairs, the Committee on Appropriations, and the Select Committee on Intelligence of the Senate; and
                           
                           
                              (2)
                              the Committee on Armed Services, the Committee on Foreign Affairs, the Committee on Homeland Security, the Committee on Appropriations, and the Permanent Select Committee on Intelligence of the House of Representatives. 
                           
                        
                        
                           (g)
                           Sunset
                           The authority in this section to carry out activities described in subsection (b), and to provide support described in subsection (c), shall expire on the date that is 5 years after the date of the enactment of this section.
                        
                     
                     .
                  
               
               
                  1765.
                  BRIEFING ON INSTITUTIONAL CAPACITY BUILDING OF COUNTRIES WITHIN UNITED STATES AFRICA COMMAND AREA OF RESPONSIBILITY
                  
                     (a)
                     Sense of Congress
                     It is the sense of Congress that—
                     
                        (1)
                        Africa is a theater of strategic competition where the People’s Republic of China and Russia continue to increase their presence through economic and military relations;
                     
                     
                        (2)
                        stability in the region has suffered, resulting in 8 military coups in the Sahel region of Africa in just the last 4 years;
                     
                     
                        (3)
                        this region serves as an important training ground for violent extremist organizations whose attacks spread across the African continent and the globe; and
                     
                     
                        (4)
                        United States Africa Command faces challenges in building strategic partnerships with African countries and bolstering stability on the continent.
                     
                  
                  
                     (b)
                     Briefing required
                     Not later than March 1, 2025, the Secretary of Defense shall offer to all members of Congress a briefing on the adequacy of institutional capacity building in countries within the area of responsibility of the United States Africa Command to strengthen governance in the defense sectors of such countries. Such briefing shall also include, at a minimum, an analysis of programs and efforts of the Department of Defense focused on—
                     
                        (1)
                        strategy and policy development;
                     
                     
                        (2)
                        budget development and execution;
                     
                     
                        (3)
                        human resource management systems;
                     
                     
                        (4)
                        logistics processes; and
                     
                     
                        (5)
                        recommendations to counter the influence of the People’s Republic of China, Russia, and non-state violent extremist organizations through additional institutional capacity building in such countries by the Department.
                     
                  
               
               
                  1766.
                  GAO STUDY ON DEPARTMENT OF DEFENSE EDUCATION ACTIVITY DISABILITY EMPHASIS PROGRAM
                  
                     (a)
                     Study
                     The Comptroller General of the United States shall conduct a study on—
                     
                        (1)
                        the effectiveness of the Department of Defense Education Activity Disability Emphasis Program; and
                     
                     
                        (2)
                        how such program supports the employment, retention, and career advancement of individuals with intellectual, physical, and developmental disabilities.
                     
                  
                  
                     (b)
                     Report
                     Not later than 180 days after the date of enactment of this Act, the Comptroller General shall submit to Congress a report containing the study conducted under subsection (a).
                  
               
               
                  1767.
                  COMMON COALITION KEY WITHIN THE BALTIC STATES
                  
                     (a)
                     In general
                     The Secretary of Defense shall establish a common coalition key within the Baltic states for purposes of sharing ammunition for High Mobility Artillery Rocket Systems (HIMARS) among such states for training and operational purposes.
                  
                  
                     (b)
                     Definition
                     In this section, the term Baltic states means—
                     
                        (1)
                        Estonia;
                     
                     
                        (2)
                        Lithuania; and
                     
                     
                        (3)
                        Latvia.
                     
                  
               
            
         
         
            XVIII
            QUALITY OF LIFE
            
               A
               Pay and Compensation
               
                  1801.
                  REFORM OF RATES OF MONTHLY BASIC PAY
                  Effective on January 1, 2025, the rates of monthly basic pay for members of the uniformed services within each pay grade and with years of service computed under section 205 of title 37, United States Code (and subject to adjustment under section 1009 of such title), are as follows:
                  
                     
                     Years of Service
                     
                        Commissioned Officers
                     
                     
                        
                        
                        
                        
                        
                        
                        
                           
                              Pay Grade
                              2 or Fewer
                              Over 2
                              Over 3
                              Over 4
                              Over 6
                           
                        
                        
                           
                              O-8
                              $12,803.70 
                              $13,223.70
                              $13,501.80 
                              $13,579.20 
                              $13,926.90
                           
                           
                              O-7
                              10,638.90 
                              11,133.00
                              11,361.90
                              11,544.00
                              11,872.80
                           
                           
                              O-6
                               8,067.90 
                              8,863.20
                              9,444.90
                              9,444.90
                              9,481.20
                           
                           
                              O-5
                               6,725.70 
                              7,576.50
                              8,100.90
                              8,199.60
                              8,527.20
                           
                           
                              O-4
                               5,803.20 
                              6,717.30
                              7,166.40
                              7,265.40
                              7,681.50
                           
                           
                              O-3
                               5,102.10 
                              5,783.70
                              6,241.80
                              6,806.10
                              7,132.80
                           
                           
                              O-2
                               4,408.50 
                              5,020.80
                              5,782.80
                              5,978.10
                              6,100.80
                           
                           
                              O-1
                               3,826.20 
                              3,982.80
                              4,814.70
                              4,814.70
                              4,814.70
                           
                           
                              
                               Over 8
                               Over 10
                               Over 12
                               Over 14
                               Over 16
                           
                           
                              O-8
                               $14,506.50 
                              $14,641.80
                              $15,192.60
                              $15,351.30
                              $15,825.90
                           
                           
                              O-7
                               12,198.30 
                              12,574.20
                              12,948.90
                              13,325.40
                              14,506.50 
                           
                           
                              O-6
                              9,887.40 
                              9,941.40
                              9,941.40
                              10,506.30
                              11,505.00 
                           
                           
                              O-5
                              8,722.50 
                              9,153.00
                              9,469.80
                              9,878.10
                              10,501.80 
                           
                           
                              O-4
                              8,127.90 
                              8,684.10 
                              9,116.10
                              9,416.70
                              9,589.50 
                           
                           
                              O-3
                               7,490.70 
                              7,721.70
                              8,102.10
                              8,301.00
                              8,301.00 
                           
                           
                              O-2
                               6,100.80 
                              6,100.80
                              6,100.80
                              6,100.80
                              6,100.80 
                           
                           
                              O-1
                               4,814.70 
                               4,814.70 
                               4,814.70 
                               4,814.70 
                               4,814.70 
                           
                           
                              
                              Over 18
                              Over 20
                              Over 22
                              Over 24
                              Over 26
                           
                           
                              O-10
                               $0.00 
                              $18,491.70
                              $18,491.70
                              $18,491.70
                              $18,491.70 
                           
                           
                              O-9
                               0.00 
                              18,096.00 
                              18,357.30 
                              18,491.70
                              18,491.70 
                           
                           
                              O-8
                               16,512.90 
                              17,145.60
                              17,568.60
                              17,568.60
                              17,568.60 
                           
                           
                              O-7
                               15,504.30 
                              15,504.30
                              15,504.30
                              15,504.30
                              15,584.10 
                           
                           
                              O-6
                               12,091.20 
                              12,677.10
                              13,010.70
                              13,348.50
                              14,002.80 
                           
                           
                              O-5
                               10,799.10 
                              11,093.10
                              11,426.70
                              11,426.70
                              11,426.70 
                           
                           
                              O-4
                               9,689.10 
                              9,689.10
                              9,689.10
                              9,689.10
                              9,689.10 
                           
                           
                              O-3
                               8,301.00 
                              8,301.00
                              8,301.00
                              8,301.00
                              8,301.00 
                           
                           
                              O-2
                              6,100.80 
                              6,100.80 
                              6,100.80 
                              6,100.80 
                              6,100.80 
                           
                           
                              O-1
                              4,814.70
                              4,814.70
                              4,814.70
                              4,814.70
                              4,814.70
                           
                           
                              
                              Over 28
                              Over 30
                              Over 32
                              Over 34
                              Over 36
                           
                           
                              O-10
                              $18,491.70
                              $18,491.70
                              $18,491.70
                              $18,491.70
                              $18,491.70
                           
                           
                              O-9
                              18,491.70
                              18,491.70
                              18,491.70
                              18,491.70
                              18,491.70
                           
                           
                              O-8
                               17,568.60 
                              18,008.40
                              18,008.40
                              18,458.10
                              18,458.10 
                           
                           
                              O-7
                               15,584.10 
                              15,895.80
                              15,895.80
                              15,895.80
                              15,895.80 
                           
                           
                              O-6
                               14,002.80 
                              14,282.40
                              14,282.40
                              14,282.40
                              14,282.40 
                           
                           
                              O-5
                               11,426.70 
                               11,426.70 
                               11,426.70 
                               11,426.70 
                               11,426.70 
                           
                           
                              O-4
                              9,689.10 
                              9,689.10 
                              9,689.10 
                              9,689.10 
                              9,689.10 
                           
                           
                              O-3
                              8,301.00 
                              8,301.00 
                              8,301.00 
                              8,301.00 
                              8,301.00 
                           
                           
                              O-2
                              6,100.80 
                              6,100.80 
                              6,100.80 
                              6,100.80 
                              6,100.80 
                           
                           
                              O-1
                               4,814.70 
                               4,814.70 
                               4,814.70 
                               4,814.70 
                               4,814.70 
                           
                           
                              
                              Over 38
                              Over 40
                              
                              
                              
                           
                           
                              O-10
                              $18,491.70 
                              $18,491.70 
                              
                              
                              
                           
                           
                              O-9
                              18,491.70 
                              18,491.70 
                              
                              
                              
                           
                           
                              O-8
                              18,458.10 
                              18,458.10 
                              
                              
                              
                           
                           
                              O-7
                              15,895.80 
                              15,895.80 
                              
                              
                              
                           
                           
                              O-6
                              14,282.40 
                              14,282.40 
                              
                              
                              
                           
                           
                              O-5
                              11,426.70 
                              11,426.70 
                              
                              
                              
                           
                           
                              O-4
                              9,689.10 
                              9,689.10 
                              
                              
                              
                           
                           
                              O-3
                              8,301.00 
                              8,301.00 
                              
                              
                              
                           
                           
                              O-2
                              6,100.80 
                              6,100.80 
                              
                              
                              
                           
                           
                              O-1
                              4,814.70 
                              4,814.70 
                              
                              
                              
                           
                        
                     
                  
                  
                     
                     
                        Commissioned Officers With Over 4 Years of Active Duty Service As An Enlisted Member or Warrant Officer
                     
                     
                        
                        
                        
                        
                        
                        
                        
                           
                              Pay Grade
                              2 or Fewer
                              Over 2
                              Over 3
                              Over 4
                              Over 6
                           
                        
                        
                           
                              O-3E
                              $0.00 
                              $0.00 
                              $0.00 
                              $6,806.10 
                              $7,132.80 
                           
                           
                              O-2E
                              0.00 
                              0.00 
                              0.00 
                              5,978.10 
                              6,100.80
                           
                           
                              O-1E
                              0.00 
                              0.00 
                              0.00 
                              4,814.70
                              5,141.10
                           
                           
                              
                              Over 8
                              Over 10
                              Over 12
                              Over 14
                               Over 16
                           
                           
                              O-3E
                              $7,490.70 
                              $7,721.70 
                              $8,102.10 
                              $8,423.40 
                              $8,607.90 
                           
                           
                              O-2E
                              6,294.90 
                              6,622.80 
                              6,876.60 
                              7,065.00 
                              7,065.00 
                           
                           
                              O-1E
                              5,331.30 
                              5,525.70 
                              5,716.50 
                              5,978.10 
                              5,978.10 
                           
                           
                              
                              Over 18
                              Over 20
                              Over 22
                              Over 24
                              Over 26
                           
                           
                              O-3E
                              $8,859.00 
                              $8,859.00 
                              $8,859.00 
                              $8,859.00 
                              $8,859.00 
                           
                           
                              O-2E
                              7,065.00 
                              7,065.00 
                              7,065.00 
                              7,065.00 
                              7,065.00 
                           
                           
                              O-1E
                               5,978.10
                               5,978.10
                               5,978.10
                               5,978.10
                               5,978.10
                           
                           
                              
                              Over 28 
                              Over 30
                              Over 32
                              Over 34
                              Over 36 
                           
                           
                              O-3E
                              $8,859.00 
                              $8,859.00 
                              $8,859.00 
                              $8,859.00 
                              $8,859.00 
                           
                           
                              O-2E
                              7,065.00 
                              7,065.00 
                              7,065.00 
                              7,065.00 
                              7,065.00 
                           
                           
                              O-1E
                              5,978.10 
                              5,978.10 
                              5,978.10 
                              5,978.10 
                              5,978.10 
                           
                           
                              
                              Over 38
                              Over 40
                              
                              
                              
                           
                           
                              O-3E
                              $8,859.00 
                              $8,859.00 
                              
                              
                              
                           
                           
                              O-2E
                              7,065.00 
                              7,065.00 
                              
                              
                              
                           
                           
                              O-1E
                              5,978.10 
                              5,978.10 
                              
                              
                              
                           
                        
                     
                  
                  
                     
                     
                        Warrant Officers
                     
                     
                        
                        
                        
                        
                        
                        
                        
                           
                              Pay Grade
                              2 or Fewer
                              Over 2
                              Over 3
                              Over 4
                              Over 6
                           
                        
                        
                           
                              W-4
                              $5,273.10 
                              $5,671.50 
                              $5,834.40 
                              $5,994.60 
                              $6,270.60 
                           
                           
                              W-3
                               4,815.60 
                              5,015.70
                              5,222.10
                              5,289.00
                              5,504.40 
                           
                           
                              W-2
                               4,260.90 
                              4,663.80
                              4,787.70
                              4,873.20
                              5,149.20 
                           
                           
                              W-1
                               3,739.80 
                              4,143.00
                              4,250.70
                              4,479.60
                              4,749.90 
                           
                           
                              
                              Over 8
                              Over 10
                              Over 12
                              Over 14
                               Over 16
                           
                           
                              W-4
                              $6,543.60 
                              $6,820.20
                              $7,235.40
                              $7,599.90
                              $7,946.70 
                           
                           
                              W-3
                               5,928.90 
                              6,370.80
                              6,579.00
                              6,819.90
                              7,067.40 
                           
                           
                              W-2
                               5,578.50 
                              5,791.80
                              6,001.20
                              6,257.40
                              6,457.80 
                           
                           
                              W-1
                               5,148.30 
                              5,334.30
                              5,595.30
                              5,850.90
                              6,052.20 
                           
                           
                              
                              Over 18
                              Over 20
                              Over 22
                              Over 24
                              Over 26
                           
                           
                              W-5
                              $9,375.60 
                              $9,375.60
                              $9,851.10
                              $10,205.70
                              $10,597.20 
                           
                           
                              W-4
                               8,231.10 
                              8,508.30
                              8,914.50
                              9,248.70
                              9,629.70 
                           
                           
                              W-3
                               7,513.80 
                              7,814.70
                              7,994.70
                              8,186.10
                              8,447.10 
                           
                           
                              W-2
                               6,639.00 
                              6,856.20
                              6,998.70
                              7,111.80
                              7,111.80 
                           
                           
                              W-1
                               6,237.60 
                              6,462.90
                              6,462.90
                              6,462.90
                              6,462.90 
                           
                           
                              
                              Over 28 
                              Over 30
                              Over 32
                              Over 34
                              Over 36 
                           
                           
                              W-5
                              $10,597.20 
                              $11,128.20
                              $11,128.20
                              $11,683.50
                              $11,683.50 
                           
                           
                              W-4
                               9,629.70 
                              9,821.70
                              9,821.70
                              9,821.70
                              9,821.70 
                           
                           
                              W-3
                              8,447.10 
                              8,447.10 
                              8,447.10 
                              8,447.10 
                              8,447.10 
                           
                           
                              W-2
                               7,111.80 
                               7,111.80 
                               7,111.80 
                               7,111.80 
                               7,111.80 
                           
                           
                              W-1
                              6,462.90 
                              6,462.90 
                              6,462.90 
                              6,462.90 
                              6,462.90 
                           
                           
                              
                              Over 38
                              Over 40
                              
                              
                              
                           
                           
                              W-5
                              $12,269.10 
                              $12,269.10 
                              
                              
                              
                           
                           
                              W-4
                              9,821.70 
                              9,821.70 
                              
                              
                              
                           
                           
                              W-3
                              8,447.10 
                              8,447.10 
                              
                              
                              
                           
                           
                              W-2
                              7,111.80 
                              7,111.80 
                              
                              
                              
                           
                           
                              W-1
                               6,462.90 
                               6,462.90 
                              
                              
                              
                           
                        
                     
                  
                  
                     
                     
                        Enlisted Members
                     
                     
                        
                        
                        
                        
                        
                        
                        
                           
                              Pay Grade
                              2 or Fewer
                              Over 2
                              Over 3
                              Over 4
                              Over 6
                           
                        
                        
                           
                              E-7
                              $3,624.90 
                              $3,956.40
                              $4,108.20
                              $4,308.30
                              $4,465.50 
                           
                           
                              E-6
                               3,135.60 
                              3,450.60
                              3,603.00
                              3,750.90
                              3,904.80
                           
                           
                              E-5
                               3,082.20 
                              3,317.10
                              3,479.40
                              3,638.70
                              3,790.80 
                           
                           
                              E-4
                               3,028.80 
                              3,183.60
                              3,356.10
                              3,526.20
                              3,677.10
                           
                           
                              E-3
                               2,733.90 
                              2,906.10
                              3,082.20
                              3,082.20
                              3,082.20 
                           
                           
                              E-2
                              2,600.10 
                              2,600.10 
                              2,600.10 
                              2,600.10 
                              2,600.10 
                           
                           
                              E-1
                              2,319.90 
                              2,319.90 
                              2,319.90 
                              2,319.90 
                              2,319.90 
                           
                           
                              
                              Over 8
                              Over 10
                              Over 12
                              Over 14
                               Over 16
                           
                           
                              E-9
                              $0.00 
                              $6,370.50
                              $6,514.80
                              $6,696.60
                              $6,910.50 
                           
                           
                              E-8
                              5,214.90 
                              5,445.60
                              5,588.40
                              5,759.40
                              5,944.50 
                           
                           
                              E-7
                               4,734.60 
                              4,886.40
                              5,155.20
                              5,379.30
                              5,532.30 
                           
                           
                              E-6
                               4,252.50 
                              4,387.80
                              4,649.70
                              4,729.80
                              4,788.00 
                           
                           
                              E-5
                               3,964.80 
                              4,052.10
                              4,076.40
                              4,076.40
                              4,076.40
                           
                           
                              E-4
                               3,677.10 
                               3,677.10 
                               3,677.10 
                               3,677.10 
                               3,677.10 
                           
                           
                              E-3
                              3,082.20
                              3,082.20 
                              3,082.20 
                              3,082.20 
                              3,082.20 
                           
                           
                              E-2
                              2,600.10
                              2,600.10 
                              2,600.10 
                              2,600.10 
                              2,600.10 
                           
                           
                              E-1
                              2,319.90 
                              2,319.90 
                              2,319.90 
                              2,319.90 
                              2,319.90 
                           
                           
                              
                              Over 18
                              Over 20
                              Over 22
                              Over 24
                              Over 26
                           
                           
                              E-9
                              $7,127.10 
                              $7,472.10
                              $7,765.20
                              $8,072.70
                              $8,544.00 
                           
                           
                              E-8
                               6,279.30 
                              6,449.10
                              6,737.40
                              6,897.30
                              7,291.20 
                           
                           
                              E-7
                               5,694.90 
                              5,757.90
                              5,969.70
                              6,083.10
                              6,515.70 
                           
                           
                              E-6
                              4,856.40 
                              4,856.40 
                              4,856.40 
                              4,856.40 
                              4,856.40 
                           
                           
                              E-5
                              4,076.40
                              4,076.40
                              4,076.40
                              4,076.40
                              4,076.40
                           
                           
                              E-4
                              3,677.10 
                              3,677.10 
                              3,677.10 
                              3,677.10 
                              3,677.10 
                           
                           
                              E-3
                              3,082.20 
                              3,082.20 
                              3,082.20 
                              3,082.20 
                              3,082.20 
                           
                           
                              E-2
                              2,600.10 
                              2,600.10 
                              2,600.10 
                              2,600.10 
                              2,600.10 
                           
                           
                              E-1
                              2,319.90 
                              2,319.90 
                              2,319.90 
                              2,319.90 
                              2,319.90 
                           
                           
                              
                              Over 28
                              Over 30
                              Over 32
                              Over 34
                              Over 36
                           
                           
                              E-9
                              $8,544.00 
                              $8,970.30
                              $8,970.30
                              $9,419.40
                              $9,419.40 
                           
                           
                              E-8
                               7,291.20 
                              7,437.30
                              7,437.30
                              7,437.30
                              7,437.30 
                           
                           
                              E-7
                              6,515.70 
                              6,515.70 
                              6,515.70 
                              6,515.70 
                              6,515.70 
                           
                           
                              E-6
                               4,856.40 
                               4,856.40 
                               4,856.40 
                               4,856.40 
                               4,856.40 
                           
                           
                              E-5
                              4,076.40
                              4,076.40
                              4,076.40
                              4,076.40
                              4,076.40
                           
                           
                              E-4
                               3,677.10 
                               3,677.10 
                               3,677.10 
                               3,677.10 
                               3,677.10 
                           
                           
                              E-3
                               3,082.20 
                               3,082.20 
                               3,082.20 
                               3,082.20 
                               3,082.20 
                           
                           
                              E-2
                              2,600.10 
                              2,600.10 
                              2,600.10 
                              2,600.10 
                              2,600.10 
                           
                           
                              E-1
                              2,319.90 
                              2,319.90 
                              2,319.90 
                              2,319.90 
                              2,319.90 
                           
                           
                              
                              Over 38
                              Over 40
                              
                              
                              
                           
                           
                              E-9
                              $9,891.30 
                              $9,891.30 
                              
                              
                              
                           
                           
                              E-8
                              7,437.30 
                              7,437.30 
                              
                              
                              
                           
                           
                              E-7
                              6,515.70 
                              6,515.70 
                              
                              
                              
                           
                           
                              E-6
                              4,856.40 
                              4,856.40 
                              
                              
                              
                           
                           
                              E-5
                              4,076.40
                              4,076.40
                              
                              
                              
                           
                           
                              E-4
                               3,677.10 
                               3,677.10 
                              
                              
                              
                           
                           
                              E-3
                               3,082.20 
                               3,082.20 
                              
                              
                              
                           
                           
                              E-2
                              2,600.10 
                              2,600.10 
                              
                              
                              
                           
                           
                              E-1
                              2,319.90 
                              2,319.90 
                              
                              
                              
                           
                        
                     
                  
               
               
                  1802.
                  BASIC ALLOWANCE FOR HOUSING: AUTHORIZATION OF APPROPRIATIONS
                  For fiscal year 2025, there is authorized to be appropriated $1,200,000,000 for the purpose of fully funding the basic allowance for housing for members of the uniformed services under section 403 of title 37, United States Code.
               
               
                  1803.
                  EVALUATION OF THE RATES OF THE BASIC ALLOWANCE FOR SUBSISTENCE
                  Not later than April 1, 2025, the Secretary of Defense shall submit to the Committees on Armed Services of the Senate and House of Representatives a report containing the evaluation of the Secretary of the rates of the basic allowance for subsistence under section 402 of title 37, United States Code. Elements of such report shall include the following:
                  
                     (1)
                     The determination of the Secretary whether such rates are sufficient.
                  
                  
                     (2)
                     Other factors that could be used to determine such rates, including—
                     
                        (A)
                        the number of dependents a member of the uniformed services has;
                     
                     
                        (B)
                        whether the member has access to fresh fruits, vegetables, dairy products, and meat;
                     
                     
                        (C)
                        whether the member has access to healthy food; and
                     
                     
                        (D)
                        the local costs of food, including at commissaries operated by the Secretary under chapter 147 of title 10, United States Code.
                     
                  
                  
                     (3)
                     The recommendations of the Secretary whether, and how, such rates may be improved.
                  
               
               
                  1804.
                  BASIC NEEDS ALLOWANCE FOR MEMBERS ON ACTIVE SERVICE IN THE ARMED FORCES: EXPANSION OF ELIGIBILITY; INCREASE OF AMOUNT
                  
                     (a)
                     Eligibility
                     Section 402b of title 37, United States Code, is amended, in subsection (b)(2)—
                     
                        (1)
                        in subparagraph (A)—
                        
                           (A)
                           by striking 
                                 (A)
                              ;
                        
                        
                           (B)
                           by striking 150 percent and inserting 200 percent; and
                        
                        
                           (C)
                           by striking ; or and inserting ; and; and
                        
                     
                     
                        (2)
                        by striking subparagraph (B).
                     
                  
                  
                     (b)
                     Amount
                     Such section is further amended, in subsection (c)(1)(A), by striking 150 percent (or, in the case of a member described in subsection (b)(2)(B), 200 percent) and inserting 200 percent.
                  
               
               
                  1805.
                  EXPANSION OF AUTHORITY OF A COMMANDING OFFICER TO AUTHORIZE A BASIC ALLOWANCE FOR HOUSING FOR A MEMBER PERFORMING INITIAL FIELD OR SEA DUTY
                  Subsection (f) of section 403 of title 37, United States Code, is amended—
                  
                     (1)
                     in paragraph (1)—
                     
                        (A)
                        by striking certifies that the member was necessarily required to procure quarters at the member's expense. and inserting an em dash; and
                     
                     
                        (B)
                        by adding at the end the following new subparagraphs:
                        
                           
                              (A)
                              certifies that the member was required to procure housing at the member's expense; or
                           
                           
                              (B)
                              determines that quarters at the duty station or in the field environment are inadequate or an impediment to morale, good order, or discipline.
                           
                           ; and
                        
                     
                  
                  
                     (2)
                     in paragraph (2)(B)—
                     
                        (A)
                        by striking the Secretary may authorize and inserting a commanding officer may authorize;
                     
                     
                        (B)
                        by striking who is serving in pay grade E–4 or E–5 and inserting who is serving in a pay grade below E-6; and
                     
                     
                        (C)
                        by striking members serving in pay grades E-4 and E-5 and inserting such members. In authorizing an allowance under this subparagraph, the commanding officer shall consider the availability of quarters for the member and whether such quarters are inadequate or an impediment to morale, good order, or discipline.
                     
                  
               
               
                  1806.
                  EXPANSION OF TRAVEL AND TRANSPORTATION ALLOWANCE TO MOVE OR STORE A PRIVATELY OWNED VEHICLE
                  Section 453 of title 37, United States Code, is amended, in subsection (c)—
                  
                     (1)
                     in paragraph (2), by striking one privately owned vehicle and inserting two privately owned vehicles; and
                  
                  
                     (2)
                     in paragraph (4), by inserting under paragraph (2) before the period at the end.
                  
               
               
                  1807.
                  REPORT REGARDING THE CALCULATION OF COST-OF-LIVING ALLOWANCES
                  
                     (a)
                     Report required
                     Not later than April 1, 2025, the Secretary of Defense shall submit to the Committees on Armed Services of the Senate and House of Representatives a report regarding the CONUS COLA and OCONUS COLA. Such report shall include the following elements:
                     
                        (1)
                        The factors used to calculate the CONUS COLA and OCONUS COLA.
                     
                     
                        (2)
                        An explanation of how the factors described in paragraph (1) are determined.
                     
                     
                        (3)
                        An explanation of how the CONUS COLA and OCONUS COLA may be adjusted, including—
                        
                           (A)
                           timelines for such an adjustment;
                        
                        
                           (B)
                           bases for such an adjustment; and
                        
                        
                           (C)
                           the relationship between CONUS COLA and OCONUS COLA.
                        
                     
                     
                        (4)
                        The evaluation of the Secretary whether the surveys used to collect data from members to calculate the CONUS COLA and OCONUS COLA are effective.
                     
                     
                        (5)
                        The evaluation of the Secretary whether the calculation of the CONUS COLA and OCONUS COLA is effective.
                     
                     
                        (6)
                        The assessment of the Secretary whether the calculation of the CONUS COLA or OCONUS COLA should include additional factors, including—
                        
                           (A)
                           the number of dependents a member has;
                        
                        
                           (B)
                           vicinity and commissary costs;
                        
                        
                           (C)
                           the reimbursement of expenses (including tolls and taxes) incurred by a member based on the duty station of such member;
                        
                        
                           (D)
                           remoteness;
                        
                        
                           (E)
                           hardship;
                        
                        
                           (F)
                           loss of spousal income;
                        
                        
                           (G)
                           the unavailability of goods or services in the vicinity of a duty station; and
                        
                        
                           (H)
                           any other factor that the Secretary determines appropriate.
                        
                     
                  
                  
                     (b)
                     Definitions
                     In this section:
                     
                        (1)
                        The term CONUS COLA means the cost-of-living allowance paid to a member of the uniformed services under section 403b of title 37, United States Code.
                     
                     
                        (2)
                        The term OCONUS COLA means a cost-of-living allowance paid to a member of the uniformed services on the basis that—
                        
                           (A)
                           the member is assigned to a permanent duty station located outside the continental United States; or
                        
                        
                           (B)
                           the dependents of such member reside outside the continental United States but not in the vicinity of the permanent duty station of such member.
                        
                     
                  
               
            
            
               B
               Child Care
               
                  1811.
                  COMPETITIVE PAY FOR DEPARTMENT OF DEFENSE CHILD CARE PERSONNEL
                  
                     (a)
                     In general
                     Section 1792(c) of title 10, United States Code, is amended to read as follows:
                     
                        
                           (c)
                           Competitive rates of pay
                           
                              (1)
                              For the purpose of providing military child development centers with a qualified and stable civilian workforce, employees at a military installation who are directly involved in providing child care and who are paid from nonappropriated funds—
                              
                                 (A)
                                 in the case of entry-level employees, shall be paid a rate of pay competitive with the rates of pay paid to other equivalent non-Federal positions within the metropolitan statistical area or non-metropolitan statistical area (as the case may be) in which such Department employee’s position is located; and
                              
                              
                                 (B)
                                 in the case of any employee not covered by subparagraph (A), shall be paid a rate of pay competitive with the rates of pay paid to other employees with similar training, seniority, and experience within the metropolitan statistical area or non-metropolitan statistical area (as the case may be) in which such Department employee’s position is located.
                              
                           
                           
                              (2)
                              Notwithstanding paragraph (1), no employee shall receive a rate of pay under this subsection that is lower than the minimum hourly rate of pay applicable to civilian employees of the Department of Defense.
                           
                           
                              (3)
                              For purposes of determining the rates of pay under paragraph (1), the Secretary shall use the metropolitan and nonmetropolitan area occupational employment and wage estimates published monthly by the Bureau of Labor Statistics.
                           
                        
                        .
                     
                  
                  
                     (b)
                     Application
                     
                        (1)
                        In general
                        The amendment made by subsection (a) shall take effect on the first day of the first pay period beginning after the date of the enactment of this Act.
                     
                     
                        (2)
                        Rates of pay
                        
                           (A)
                           Current employee pay rate not reduced
                           The rate of pay for any individual who is an employee covered by subsection (c) of section 1792 of title 10, United States Code, as amended by subsection (a) of this section, on the date of the enactment of this Act shall not be reduced by operation of such amendment.
                        
                        
                           (B)
                           Pay band minimum
                           Any employee whose rate of pay is fixed under such subsection (c), as so amended, and who is within any pay band shall receive a rate of pay not less than the minimum rate of pay applicable to such pay band. 
                        
                     
                  
               
               
                  1812.
                  PARENT FEES AT MILITARY CHILD DEVELOPMENT CENTERS FOR CHILD CARE EMPLOYEES
                  Section 1793 of title 10, United States Code, is amended by striking subsection (d) and inserting the following new subsections:
                  
                     
                        (d)
                        Child care employee discount
                        In order to support recruitment and retention initiatives, the Secretary of Defense shall charge reduced fees for the attendance, at a military child development center, of the children of a child care employee as follows:
                        
                           (1)
                           For the first child, no fee.
                        
                        
                           (2)
                           For each other child, a fee equal to or less than a fee discounted under subsection (c).
                        
                     
                     
                        (e)
                        Prohibition of concurrent discounts
                        A family may not receive discounts under subsections (c) and (d) concurrently.
                     
                     .
                  
               
               
                  1813.
                  CHILD ABUSE PREVENTION AND SAFETY AT MILITARY CHILD DEVELOPMENT CENTERS
                  
                     (a)
                     National hotline
                     Section 1794 of title 10, United States Code, is amended, in paragraph (2) of subsection (b)—
                     
                        (1)
                        by striking the period at at the end and inserting by means including—; and
                     
                     
                        (2)
                        by adding at the end the following new subparagraphs:
                        
                           
                              (A)
                              posting it in public areas of military child development centers; and
                           
                           
                              (B)
                              providing it to the parents and legal guardians of children who attend military child development centers.
                           
                           .
                        
                     
                  
                  
                     (b)
                     Safety regulations
                     Such section is further amended, in subsection (d)—
                     
                        (1)
                        by inserting 
                              (1)
                            before The Secretary; and
                     
                     
                        (2)
                        by adding at the end the following new paragraphs:
                        
                           
                              (2)
                              The regulations required under paragraph (1) shall—
                              
                                 (A)
                                 require the Secretary to notify the parents and legal guardians of children who attend a military child development center not later than 24 hours after such a child suffers abuse or harm at such military child development center;
                              
                              
                                 (B)
                                 establish processes by which the commander of the military installation and military police shall—
                                 
                                    (i)
                                    investigate and address incidents of abuse and harm involving children at military child development centers; and
                                 
                                 
                                    (ii)
                                    notify the parents or legal guardians of a child who experiences abuse or harm at a military child development center of the status of any investigations or actions taken (including under subsection (c)) to address such abuse or harm; and
                                 
                              
                              
                                 (C)
                                 require the Secretary of Defense, to the maximum extent practicable, to furnish the regulations under this subsection to parents and legal guardians of children who attend military child development centers.
                              
                           
                           .
                        
                     
                  
                  
                     (c)
                     Remedies
                     Such section is further amended, in subsection (f), by adding at the end the following new paragraph:
                     
                        
                           (3)
                           The Secretary of Defense shall notify the Committees on Armed Services of the Senate and House of Representatives in writing not later than 30 days after a requirement is waived under paragraph (2).
                        
                        .
                     
                  
               
               
                  1814.
                  ADDITIONAL INFORMATION IN OUTREACH CAMPAIGN RELATING TO WAITING LISTS FOR MILITARY CHILD DEVELOPMENT CENTERS
                  Section 585(a)(2)(D) of the National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2024 (Public Law 118–31; 10 U.S.C. 1791 note prec.) is amended by inserting a provider eligible for financial assistance under any clause of section 1798(b)(3)(B) of title 10, United States Code, or before pilot programs.
               
               
                  1815.
                  PRIORITY IN EXPANSION OF PILOT PROGRAM TO PROVIDE FINANCIAL ASSISTANCE TO MEMBERS OF THE ARMED FORCES FOR IN-HOME CHILD CARE
                  Section 589(b) of the William M. (Mac) Thornberry National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2021 (Public Law 116–283; 10 U.S.C. 1791 note) is amended by adding at the end the following new paragraph:
                  
                     
                        (3)
                        In making a determination under paragraph (2), the Secretary shall give priority to remote locations, including the following:
                        
                           (A)
                           Fort Drum, New York.
                        
                        
                           (B)
                           Holloman Air Force Base, New Mexico.
                        
                        
                           (C)
                           Naval Air Station Lemoore, California.
                        
                        
                           (D)
                           Marine Corps Air Ground Combat Center Twentynine Palms, California.
                        
                     
                     .
                  
               
               
                  1816.
                  CHILD CARE SERVICES AND YOUTH PROGRAM SERVICES FOR DEPENDENTS
                  
                     (a)
                     In general
                     Subject to the availability of appropriations, the Secretary of Defense shall fully fund requests for financial assistance to eligible civilian providers of child care services or youth program services under section 1798 of title 10, United States Code.
                  
                  
                     (b)
                     Rule of construction
                     This section shall not be construed to limit the authority of the Secretary under subsection (a) of section 1798 of such title to determine whether to provide such financial assistance to an eligible provider.
                  
               
               
                  1817.
                  BRIEFINGS ON MILITARY CHILD DEVELOPMENT CENTERS
                  
                     (a)
                     Briefings required
                     The Secretary of Defense, in coordination with the Secretaries of the military departments, shall submit to the Committees on Armed Services of the Senate and House of Representatives briefings regarding child care services at military child development centers according to the following schedule:
                     
                        (1)
                        Once every three months beginning on March 1, 2025, and ending on March 1, 2026.
                     
                     
                        (2)
                        On March 1 of each year thereafter through 2030.
                     
                  
                  
                     (b)
                     Elements
                     Each briefing shall include, with regard to the period covered by the briefing, the following elements:
                     
                        (1)
                        Waiting lists for such services, disaggregated by military installation.
                     
                     
                        (2)
                        Shortages of child care employees at military child development centers, disaggregated by military installation.
                     
                     
                        (3)
                        Insufficient capacity of military child development centers, disaggregated by military installation.
                     
                     
                        (4)
                        Efforts of the Secretary of Defense to mitigate such shortages or insufficiencies in order to shorten such waiting lists.
                     
                  
                  
                     (c)
                     Definitions
                     In this section, the terms military child development center and child care employee have the meanings given such terms in section 1800 of title 10, United States Code.
                  
               
               
                  1818.
                  BRIEFING ON ACCESS OF MEMBERS OF NATIONAL GUARD TO CHILD CARE SERVICES AT MILITARY CHILD DEVELOPMENT CENTERS
                  
                     (a)
                     Briefing required
                     Not later than one year after the date of the enactment of this Act, the Secretary of Defense, in coordination with the Secretaries of the Army and Air Force, shall submit to the Committees on Armed Services of the Senate and House of Representatives a briefing regarding the access of members of the Army National Guard and the Air Force National Guard to child care services at military child development centers.
                  
                  
                     (b)
                     Elements
                     The briefing under this section shall include the following elements:
                     
                        (1)
                        The number of families in the Army National Guard and the Air Force National Guard with children under 12 years of age.
                     
                     
                        (2)
                        The number of families in the Army National Guard and the Air Force National Guard with children under 12 years in which both parents are members of either the Army National Guard or the Air Force National Guard.
                     
                     
                        (3)
                        The number of single parent households in which the parent is a member of the Army National Guard or the Air Force National Guard.
                     
                     
                        (4)
                        The average number of days during the year in which a member of the Army National Guard or the Air Force National Guard who has a child under 12 years of age is on active duty.
                     
                     
                        (5)
                        The number of members of the Army National Guard or the Air Force National Guard Number who have a child under 12 years of age who live within the following distance of a military child development center:
                        
                           (A)
                           10 miles.
                        
                        
                           (B)
                           25 miles.
                        
                        
                           (C)
                           50 miles.
                        
                        
                           (D)
                           Over 100 miles.
                        
                     
                     
                        (6)
                        The number of Army National Guard armories and Air Force National Guard armories within the following distance of a military child development center:
                        
                           (A)
                           10 miles.
                        
                        
                           (B)
                           25 miles.
                        
                        
                           (C)
                           50 miles.
                        
                        
                           (D)
                           Over 100 miles.
                        
                     
                     
                        (7)
                        The number of Army National Guard families who have successfully obtained a voucher for child care funding cost assistance though the Childcare Aware and Upwards programs.
                     
                     
                        (8)
                        The number of Air Force National Guard families who have successfully obtained a voucher for child care funding cost assistance though the Childcare Aware and Upwards programs.
                     
                     
                        (9)
                        The amount of funds currently spent on vouchers under the Childcare Aware program for Army National Guard families and Air Force National Guard families, and the amount of funds currently spent on vouchers for Army National Guard families and Air Force National Guard families under the Upwards program.
                     
                     
                        (10)
                        An overview of State laws that affect the ability of military child development centers to provide 24-hour and overnight child care services.
                     
                  
                  
                     (c)
                     Definition
                     In this section, the term military child development center has the meaning given such term in section 1800 of title 10, United States Code.
                  
               
            
            
               C
               Military Housing
               
                  1821.
                  BUDGET JUSTIFICATION FOR CERTAIN FACILITIES SUSTAINMENT, RESTORATION, AND MODERNIZATION PROJECTS
                  
                     Chapter 9 of title 10, United States Code, is amended by inserting after section 226 the following new section:
                  
                     
                        227.
                        BUDGET JUSTIFICATION FOR COVERED MILITARY UNACCOMPANIED HOUSING FACILITIES SUSTAINMENT, RESTORATION, AND MODERNIZATION PROJECTS
                        
                           (a)
                           In general
                           Along with the budget for each fiscal year submitted by the President pursuant to section 1105(a) of title 31, United States Code, each Secretary of a military department shall include a consolidated budget justification display that individually identifies—
                           
                              (1)
                              for the fiscal year covered by the budget, the total requested expenditure for Facilities Sustainment, Restoration, and Modernization projects for covered military unaccompanied housing compared to the total expenditure required by such projects, disaggregated by military department; and
                           
                           
                              (2)
                              the total expenditure for Facilities Sustainment, Restoration, and Modernization projects made during the fiscal year beginning two years before the fiscal year covered by the budget, disagggregated by—
                              
                                 (A)
                                 military installation;
                              
                              
                                 (B)
                                 the type of facility repaired or restored under such projects; 
                              
                              
                                 (C)
                                 the number of such projects that were for sustainment or repair of a facility; and
                              
                              
                                 (D)
                                 the number of such projects that were for restoration or modernization of a facility.
                              
                           
                        
                        
                           (b)
                           Definitions
                           In this section:
                           
                              (1)
                              The term covered military unaccompanied housing has the meaning given in section 2856 of this title.
                           
                           
                              (2)
                              The terms facility and military installation have the meanings given, respectively, in section 2801 of this title. 
                           
                        
                     
                     .
                  
               
               
                  1822.
                  STRATEGY FOR USE OF EXISTING LEASING AUTHORITIES TO ADDRESS SHORTAGES OF COVERED MILITARY UNACCOMPANIED HOUSING REQUIRED
                  
                     (a)
                     Strategy required
                     
                        (1)
                        In general
                        Each Secretary of a military department shall develop a strategy to use the authorities of such Secretary, in effect as of such date, to lease real property to address shortages of covered military unaccompanied housing.
                     
                     
                        (2)
                        Elements
                        Each strategy required by paragraph (1) shall include, with respect to military installations under the jurisdiction of the Secretary of the military department concerned—
                        
                           (A)
                           an identification of military installations with the largest shortages of covered military unaccompanied housing;
                        
                        
                           (B)
                           an identification of military installations where existing facilities of covered military unaccompanied housing are in poor or failing condition under the uniform index for evaluating the condition of covered military unaccompanied housing required by section 2838 of the National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2024 (Public Law 118–31; 10 U.S.C. note prec. 2851);
                        
                        
                           (C)
                           plans of such Secretary in effect as of the date of the enactment of this Act to address shortages of covered military unaccompanied housing or the condition of facilities of covered military unaccompanied housing using—
                           
                              (i)
                              military construction projects; or
                           
                           
                              (ii)
                              facility sustainment, restoration, or modernization funds; and
                           
                        
                        
                           (D)
                           an assessment of whether the leasing authority under section 2661 of title 10, United States Code, or intergovernmental support agreements under section 2679 of such title would be suitable for use by such Secretary to address—
                           
                              (i)
                              shortages of covered military unaccompanied housing; or
                           
                           
                              (ii)
                              the poor or failing condition of a facility of covered military unaccompanied housing.
                           
                        
                     
                     
                        (3)
                        Deadline
                        Each Secretary of a military department shall submit to the congressional defense committees a report that includes the strategy required by subsection (a) by not later than 180 days after the date of the enactment of this Act.
                     
                  
                  
                     (b)
                     Definitions
                     In this section:
                     
                        (1)
                        The term congressional defense committees has the meaning given such term in section 101(a)(16) of title 10, United States Code.
                     
                     
                        (2)
                        The term covered military unaccompanied housing has the meaning given such term in section 2856 of such title.
                     
                     
                        (3)
                        The terms facility and military construction project have the meanings given such terms in section 2801 of such title.
                     
                  
               
               
                  1823.
                  INDEPENDENT ASSESSMENT OF ESTIMATED COSTS OF CERTAIN STRATEGIES TO ADDRESS SHORTAGES OF COVERED MILITARY UNACCOMPANIED HOUSING
                  
                     (a)
                     Agreement
                     Not later than 60 days after the date of the enactment of this Act, the Secretary of Defense shall seek to enter into an agreement with an FFRDC for an assessment that compares the estimated total cost to the United States during the 20-year period beginning on the date of the enactment of this Act of—
                     
                        (1)
                        the construction and maintenance of facilities of covered military unaccompanied housing to address shortages in covered military unaccompanied housing; and
                     
                     
                        (2)
                        the modification of policies of the Department of Defense and each military department to permit a greater number of members of the Armed Forces to reside in housing facilities other than covered military unaccompanied housing (including such policies relating to the payment of basic allowance for housing under section 403 of title 37, United States Code).
                     
                  
                  
                     (b)
                     Report on assessment
                     An FFRDC that enters into an agreement under subsection (a) shall submit to the Secretary of Defense a report on such assessment. Such report shall include—
                     
                        (1)
                        a comprehensive review of—
                        
                           (A)
                           the total lifecycle costs, disaggregated by each military department, of the construction, sustainment, and modernization of facilities of covered unaccompanied housing to meet—
                           
                              (i)
                              the needs for housing for members of the Armed Forces as of the date of the enactment of this Act; and
                           
                           
                              (ii)
                              the projected needs for such housing during the 20-year period beginning on the date of the enactment of this Act, as determined by each Secretary concerned;
                           
                        
                        
                           (B)
                           the applicable policies of each military department with respect to which members of the Armed Forces are required to reside in covered military unaccompanied housing; and
                        
                        
                           (C)
                           for each military department, the expected expenditure for basic allowance for housing under section 403 of title 37, United States Code, during the 20-year period beginning on the date of the enactment of this Act compared to such total lifecycle costs;
                        
                     
                     
                        (2)
                        a summary of the research and other activities carried out as part of such comprehensive review; and
                     
                     
                        (3)
                        recommendations of the FFRDC with respect to requirements and policies of the Department of Defense and each military department for covered military unaccompanied housing.
                     
                  
                  
                     (c)
                     Submission to Congress
                     
                        (1)
                        In general
                        Not later than 30 days after the date on which the Secretary of Defense receives the report under subsection (b), such Secretary shall submit to the Committees on Armed Services of the House of Representatives and the Senate a report that includes—
                        
                           (A)
                           an unaltered copy of the report of the FFRDC submitted to the Secretary of Defense pursuant to subsection (b); and
                        
                        
                           (B)
                           the written responses of the Secretary of the Defense and the Secretaries concerned with respect to the results of such report.
                        
                     
                     
                        (2)
                        Form
                        The report required by paragraph (1) shall be submitted in unclassified form, but may include a classified annex.
                     
                  
                  
                     (d)
                     Definitions
                     In this section:
                     
                        (1)
                        The term covered military unaccompanied housing has the meaning given such term in section 2856 of title 10, United States Code.
                     
                     
                        (2)
                        The term facility has the meaning given such term in section 2801 of such title.
                     
                     
                        (3)
                        The term FFRDC means a federally funded research and development center.
                     
                  
               
               
                  1824.
                  DIGITAL MAINTENANCE REQUEST SYSTEM FOR COVERED MILITARY UNACCOMPANIED HOUSING
                  
                     (a)
                     In general
                     Not later than 180 days after the date of the enactment of this Act, the Secretary of Defense shall—
                     
                        (1)
                        require each Secretary of a military department to establish a digital system for residents of covered military unaccompanied housing located on a military installation under the jurisdiction of such Secretary to make maintenance requests for such housing; and
                     
                     
                        (2)
                        submit to the congressional defense committees a report on the establishment of such digital systems.
                     
                  
                  
                     (b)
                     Definitions
                     In this section:
                     
                        (1)
                        The term military installation has the meaning given in section 2801 of title 10, United States Code.
                     
                     
                        (2)
                        The term covered military unaccompanied housing has the meaning given in section 2856 of title 10, United States Code.
                     
                  
               
               
                  1825.
                  DIGITAL FACILITIES MANAGEMENT SYSTEMS FOR MILITARY DEPARTMENTS
                  
                     (a)
                     Digital facilities management systems for military departments
                     
                     
                        (1)
                        Criteria
                        Not later than 180 days after the date of the enactment of this Act, the Assistant Secretary of Defense for Energy, Installations, and Environment, in coordination with each covered Assistant Secretary, shall develop criteria for a new or established digital facilities management system for each military department. Each such system shall have the capability to, with respect to each military installation—
                        
                           (A)
                           track conditions of individual facilities, applying the uniform index developed under section 2838 of the National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2024 (Public Law 118–31), for each military installation under the jurisdiction of each such covered Assistant Secretary;
                        
                        
                           (B)
                           plan for maintenance actions for each facility; and
                        
                        
                           (C)
                           generate reports that include data on—
                           
                              (i)
                              the type and function of each facility;
                           
                           
                              (ii)
                              the overall condition of each facility;
                           
                           
                              (iii)
                              planned maintenance for each facility during a five-year period following the date of submission of the criteria;
                           
                           
                              (iv)
                              conditions that may lead to a failure to maintain minimum physical security or configuration standards for members of the Armed Forces during the 12-month period following the date of submission of the criteria; and
                           
                           
                              (v)
                              the date on which the facility will have been in use for 40 years.
                           
                        
                     
                     
                        (2)
                        Briefing
                        Not later than 30 days after the date on which the Assistant Secretary of Defense for Energy, Installations, and Environment develops the criteria required under paragraph (1), the Assistant Secretary shall provide to the congressional defense committees a briefing on such criteria. 
                     
                     
                        (3)
                        Implementation
                        Not later than one year after the date on which the Assistant Secretary of Defense for Energy, Installations, and Environment develops the criteria required under paragraph (1), each covered Assistant Secretary shall implement a digital facilities management system for the military department under the jurisdiction of that meets the criteria described in paragraph (1).
                     
                  
                  
                     (b)
                     Definitions
                     In this section:
                     
                        (1)
                        The term covered Assistant Secretary means—
                        
                           (A)
                           the Assistant Secretary of the Army for Installations, Energy, and Environment;
                        
                        
                           (B)
                           the Assistant Secretary of the Navy for Energy, Installations, and Environment; and
                        
                        
                           (C)
                           the Assistant Secretary of the Air Force for Installations, Environment, and Energy.
                        
                     
                     
                        (2)
                        The term facility has the meaning given in section 2801 of title 10, United States Code.
                     
                     
                        (3)
                        The term military department has the meaning given in section 101 of such title.
                     
                     
                        (4)
                        The term military installation has the meaning given in section 2801 of such title.
                     
                  
               
               
                  1826.
                  TEMPORARY BIENNIAL REPORT ON QUALITY AND CONDITION OF COVERED MILITARY UNACCOMPANIED HOUSING LOCATED OUTSIDE THE UNITED STATES
                  
                     (a)
                     Report required
                     
                        (1)
                        In general
                        Not later than one year after the date of the enactment of this Act, and biennially thereafter until January 1, 2032, the Secretary of Defense shall submit to the Committees on Armed Services of the Senate and the House of Representatives a report on the quality and condition of each facility of covered military unaccompanied housing located outside the United States, disaggregated by military installation on which each such facility is located.
                     
                     
                        (2)
                        Elements
                         Such report shall include, for each facility of covered military unaccompanied housing the following:
                        
                           (A)
                           A description of each facility of covered military unaccompanied housing including age, whether the facility is permanent or temporary, and whether the facility is Government-owned or leased.
                        
                        
                           (B)
                           The results of an evaluation of the condition of such facility using the uniform index developed under section 2838 of the National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2024 (Public Law 118–31).
                        
                        
                           (C)
                           With respect to the standards for habitability established under section 2856b of title 10, United States Code (as added by section 2832 of the National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2024)—
                           
                              (i)
                              an explanation of how such standards are applied to such facility; and
                           
                           
                              (ii)
                              an estimation of the funding needed to apply such standards to such facility.
                           
                        
                        
                           (D)
                           An assessment of how such standards and the condition of such facility determined under the evaluation described in subparagraph (B) affect force readiness, disaggregated by combatant command.
                        
                     
                  
                  
                     (b)
                     Defined
                     In this section:
                     
                        (1)
                        The term covered military unaccompanied housing has the meaning given in section 2856 of title 10, United States Code.
                     
                     
                        (2)
                        The terms facility and military installation have the meanings given, respectively, in section 2801 of such title. 
                     
                  
               
               
                  1827.
                  HOUSING ACCOMMODATIONS FOR MILITARY FAMILIES ON HOUSING WAITLISTS
                  
                     (a)
                     Waitlist accommodations
                     The Secretary of Defense shall provide to members of the Armed Forces and their dependents who, when undergoing a permanent change of station, are placed on a waitlist for on-base housing for a period of more than 10 days following the date of arrival at the new location, temporary accommodations for the entire duration of such period appropriate for the total size and composition of the family of the member and at a rate not to exceed the basic allowance for housing calculated for such member under section 403 of title 37, United States Code.
                  
                  
                     (b)
                     Report
                     Not later than 180 days after the date of the enactment of this Act, the Secretary of Defense shall submit to the congressional defense committees a report containing—
                     
                        (1)
                        installation-specific data on the number of members of the Armed Forces and their dependents on military housing waitlists;
                     
                     
                        (2)
                        an identification of the time spent by each such member and their dependents awaiting appropriate housing accommodations;
                     
                     
                        (3)
                        an analysis of the factors that are creating the need for such waitlists; and
                     
                     
                        (4)
                        an assessment of the causes of waitlist durations that exceed 10 days.
                     
                  
               
            
            
               D
               Access to Health Care
               
                  1831.
                  EXCLUSION OF MENTAL HEALTH CARE PROVIDERS FROM AUTHORIZED STRENGTHS OF CERTAIN OFFICERS ON ACTIVE DUTY
                  Section 523(b) of title 10, United States Code, is amended by adding at the end the following new paragraph:
                  
                     
                        (10)
                        Officers who are licensed mental health providers, including clinical psychologists, licensed clinical social workers, mental health nurse practitioners, or psychiatric physician assistants.
                     
                     . 
                  
               
               
                  1832.
                  TRICARE PROGRAM: WAIVER OF REFERRAL REQUIREMENT UNDER TRICARE PRIME FOR CERTAIN CARE IN A MILITARY MEDICAL TREATMENT FACILITY
                  Section 1095f(a)(2) of title 10, United States Code, is amended—
                  
                     (1)
                     by inserting 
                           (A)
                         before The Secretary; and
                  
                  
                     (2)
                     by adding at the end the following new subparagraph:
                     
                        
                           (B)
                           The Secretary shall waive the referral requirement in paragraph (1) in the case of a member of the armed forces serving on active duty who seeks to obtain any of the following kinds of care in a military medical treatment facility:
                           
                              (i)
                              Physical therapy.
                           
                           
                              (ii)
                              Nutritional.
                           
                           
                              (iii)
                              Audiological.
                           
                           
                              (iv)
                              Optometric.
                           
                           
                              (v)
                              Podiatric.
                           
                           
                              (vi)
                              Primary and preventive health care services for women (as such term is defined in section 1074d of this title).
                           
                        
                        .
                     
                  
               
               
                  1833.
                  EXTENSION OF ENHANCED APPOINTMENT AND COMPENSATION AUTHORITY FOR CERTAIN HEALTH CARE PROVIDERS
                  Section 1599c(b) of title 10, United States Code, is amended by striking December 31, 2025 both places it appears and inserting December 31, 2030.
               
               
                  1834.
                  REFERRAL OF A MEMBER OF THE ARMED FORCES TO A TRICARE PROVIDER FOR URGENT BEHAVIORAL HEALTH SERVICES
                  Section 722 of the National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2020 (Public Law 116–92; 10 U.S.C. 1071 note) is amended—
                  
                     (1)
                     by striking If and inserting 
                           (a) In general.—Subject to subsection (b), if; and
                  
                  
                     (2)
                     by adding at the end the following new subsection:
                     
                        
                           (b)
                           Urgent behavioral health services
                           
                              (1)
                              In general
                              If the Secretary of Defense is unable to provide urgent behavioral health services in a military medical treatment facility to a covered individual during the three-day period following the date on which such services are first requested by the covered individual, the Secretary shall refer the covered individual to a provider under the TRICARE program to receive such services.
                           
                           
                              (2)
                              Covered individual defined
                              In this subsection, the term covered individual means—
                              
                                 (A)
                                 a member of the Armed Forces on active duty;
                              
                              
                                 (B)
                                 a retired member of the Armed Forces; or
                              
                              
                                 (C)
                                 a dependent of a member described in paragraph (1); or
                              
                              
                                 (D)
                                 a dependent of a former member described in paragraph (2).
                              
                           
                        
                        .
                     
                  
               
               
                  1835.
                  WAIVER WITH RESPECT TO EXPERIENCED NURSES AT MILITARY MEDICAL TREATMENT FACILITIES
                  
                     (a)
                     In general
                     The hiring manager of a military medical treatment facility or other health care facility of the Department of Defense may waive any General Schedule qualification standard related to work experience established by the Director of the Office of Personnel Management in the case of any applicant for a nursing or practical nurse position in a military medical treatment facility or other health care facility of the Department of Defense who—
                     
                        (1)
                        
                           (A)
                           is a nurse or practical nurse in the Department of Defense; or
                        
                        
                           (B)
                           was a nurse or practical nurse in the Department of Defense for at least one year; and
                        
                     
                     
                        (2)
                        after commencing work as a nurse or practical nurse in the Department of Defense, obtained a bachelor's degree or graduate degree from an accredited professional nursing educational program.
                     
                  
                  
                     (b)
                     Certification
                     If, in the case of any applicant described in subsection (a), a hiring manager waives a qualification standard in accordance with such subsection, such hiring manager shall submit to the Director of the Office of Personnel Management a certification that such applicant meets all remaining General Schedule qualification standards established by the Director of the Office of Personnel Management for the applicable position.
                  
               
               
                  1836.
                  PILOT PROGRAM FOR HIRING HEALTH CARE PROFESSIONALS
                  
                     (a)
                     Pilot Program
                     
                        (1)
                        Establishment
                        Not later than three months after the date of the enactment of this Act, the Secretary of Defense shall establish and implement a pilot program to appoint licensed civilian health care professionals to positions within the Department of Defense.
                     
                     
                        (2)
                        Locations
                        The Secretary shall carry out the pilot program under this section at not more than three military medical treatment facilities maintained under section 1073d of title 10, United States Code, to be selected by the Secretary. To be eligible for selection under this paragraph, a military medical treatment facility may not be more than 50 miles from a medical center of the Department of Veterans Affairs.
                     
                  
                  
                     (b)
                     Appointments
                     
                        (1)
                        In general
                        For the purposes of appointing licensed civilian health care professionals under the pilot program, the Secretary of Defense shall exercise the hiring authority under section 1599c(a)(1) of title 10, United States Code, with respect to the appointment and pay of health care personnel under chapter 74 of title 38, United States Code. Notwithstanding subsection (b) of such section 1599c, the authority under this paragraph shall expire on the date set forth in subsection (d) of this section. 
                     
                     
                        (2)
                        Conversion
                        Any Department of Defense employee who, on the date the pilot program under this section is established, is a licensed health care professional occupying a position at any military medical treatment facility selected under subsection (a) may elect to have their appointment converted such that their position is subject to the provisions of such chapter 74 described in paragraph (1).
                     
                     
                        (3)
                        Opt out
                        Any individual who has applied for a position at any such a facility before the pilot program is established but who has not been appointed may, in the event of subsequent appointment, elect to not be subject to such provisions of such chapter 74 or the hiring requirements of the pilot program.
                     
                  
                  
                     (c)
                     Report
                     Not later than one year after the date of the enactment of this Act and annually thereafter until the date under subsection (d), the Secretary shall submit a report to the Committees on Armed Services of the Senate and House of Representatives on the pilot program. Each such report shall include the following information:
                     
                        (1)
                        The total number of full-time equivalent positions added under the pilot program.
                     
                     
                        (2)
                        The average time from announcement of an available position to—
                        
                           (A)
                           the date an individual is offered employment, sorted by position; and
                        
                        
                           (B)
                           the date an individual commences employment, sorted by position.
                        
                     
                     
                        (3)
                        The turnover rate for employees appointed under the pilot program.
                     
                  
                  
                     (d)
                     Sunset
                     The authority to carry out the pilot program established under this section shall terminate on the date that is three years after the date Secretary establishes the pilot program under such subsection.
                  
               
               
                  1837.
                  RETENTION OF HEALTH CARE PROVIDERS: SURVEYS; BRIEFING; REPORTS
                  
                     (a)
                     Surveys
                     The Secretary of a military department shall conduct an annual survey of health care providers under the jurisdiction of such Secretary to determine why such providers remain on, or separate from, active duty in such military department.
                  
                  
                     (b)
                     Briefing
                     Not later than 90 days after the date of the enactment of this Act, the Secretary of a military department shall provide to the Committees on Armed Services of the Senate and House of Representatives a briefing regarding the plan of such Secretary to carry out the survey under this section.
                  
                  
                     (c)
                     Reports
                     Not later than September 30 of each year, beginning in 2025, the Secretary of a military department shall submit to the Committees on Armed Services of the Senate and House of Representatives a report regarding the most recent survey under this section.
                     
                        (1)
                        Elements
                        Each report shall include the following elements:
                        
                           (A)
                           Demographic data regarding the providers, disaggregated under paragraph (2).
                        
                        
                           (B)
                           Reasons providers gave for remaining.
                        
                        
                           (C)
                           Reasons providers gave for separating.
                        
                        
                           (D)
                           The determination of the Secretary whether there is a trend regarding retention or such reasons.
                        
                        
                           (E)
                           Efforts of the Secretary to reverse a negative trend or encourage a positive trend.
                        
                        
                           (F)
                           Legislative recommendations of the Secretary regarding how to reverse a negative trend or encourage a positive trend.
                        
                     
                     
                        (2)
                        Demographic data
                        In each report, the Secretary of a military department shall disaggregate demographic data regarding providers who participated in the most recent survey on the bases of the following categories:
                        
                           (A)
                           Medical specialty.
                        
                        
                           (B)
                           Rank.
                        
                        
                           (C)
                           Gender.
                        
                        
                           (D)
                           Years of service in such military department.
                        
                        
                           (E)
                           Whether the provider became an officer on active duty in such military department—
                           
                              (i)
                              pursuant to the Armed Forces Health Professions Scholarship and Financial Assistance program under subchapter I of chapter 105 of title 10, United States Code;
                           
                           
                              (ii)
                              after graduating from the Uniformed Services University of the Health Sciences established under section 2112 of such title; or
                           
                           
                              (iii)
                              otherwise. 
                           
                        
                     
                  
                  
                     (d)
                     Termination
                     This section shall cease to have effect on September 30, 2030.
                  
               
            
            
               E
               Support for Military Spouses
               
                  1841.
                  INTERSTATE COMPACTS FOR PORTABILITY OF OCCUPATIONAL LICENSES OF MILITARY SPOUSES: PERMANENT AUTHORITY
                  
                     (a)
                     In general
                     Section 1784(h) of title 10, United States Code, is amended by striking paragraph (5).
                  
                  
                     (b)
                     Effective date
                     The amendment made by subsection (a) shall take effect as if enacted immediately following the enactment of the National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2020 (Public Law 116–92), to which such amendment relates.
                  
               
               
                  1842.
                  PERMANENT MILITARY SPOUSE CAREER ACCELERATOR PROGRAM
                  
                     (a)
                     Establishment
                     Section 1784 of title 10, United States Code, is amended by adding at the end the following new subsection:
                     
                        
                           (i)
                           Employment fellowship opportunities
                           The Secretary of Defense shall carry out a program to provide spouses of members of the armed forces with paid fellowships (including in-person, remote, and hybrid fellowships) with employers in various industries. To carry out such program, the Secretary shall take the following steps:
                           
                              (1)
                              Enter into an agreement with an entity to conduct such program.
                           
                           
                              (2)
                              Determine the appropriate capacity for the program based on the availability of appropriations for such purpose.
                           
                           
                              (3)
                              Establish criteria to evaluate the effectiveness and cost-effectiveness of the program in supporting the employment of such spouses.
                           
                        
                        .
                     
                  
                  
                     (b)
                     Effective date
                     Subsection (i) of such section shall take effect on January 1, 2026.
                  
                  
                     (c)
                     Conforming amendment
                     The pilot program under section 564 of the National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2022 (Public Law 117–81; 10 U.S.C. 1784 note) shall terminate on January 1, 2026.
                  
               
               
                  1843.
                  CHILD CARE SERVICES AND YOUTH PROGRAM SERVICES FOR DEPENDENTS: PERIOD OF SERVICES FOR A MEMBER WITH A SPOUSE SEEKING EMPLOYMENT
                  
                     (a)
                     Period
                     The Secretary of a military department may provide a covered member with covered services for a period of at least 180 days.
                  
                  
                     (b)
                     Rule of construction
                     Nothing in this section shall be construed to—
                     
                        (1)
                        entitle a covered member to covered services; or
                     
                     
                        (2)
                        give priority to a covered member for purposes of a determination regarding who shall receive covered services.
                     
                  
                  
                     (c)
                     Definitions
                     In this section:
                     
                        (1)
                        The term covered member means a member of the Armed Forces—
                        
                           (A)
                           who has a dependent child; and
                        
                        
                           (B)
                           whose spouse is seeking employment.
                        
                     
                     
                        (2)
                        The term covered services means child care services or youth program services provided or paid for by the Secretary of Defense under subchapter II of chapter 88 of title 10, United States Code.
                     
                  
               
            
            
               F
               Other Matters, Reports, and Briefings
               
                  1851.
                  INCREASED ACCESS TO FOOD ON MILITARY INSTALLATIONS
                  
                     (a)
                     In general
                     Not later than 180 days after the date of the enactment of this Act, the Secretary of Defense shall ensure that the Secretaries of the military departments shall implement a program, standardized across the military departments, to increase access to food on military installations for members of the Armed Forces who reside on such military installations.
                  
                  
                     (b)
                     CAC access
                     Food made available under the program under this section shall be accessible with a common access card at dining facilities, commissaries, exchanges, restaurants, and other locations where such members can obtain food.
                  
                  
                     (c)
                     Briefing
                     Not later than 90 days after the date of the enactment of this Act, the Secretary of Defense and the Secretaries of the military departments shall jointly submit to the Committees on Armed Services of the Senate and House of Representatives a briefing on the implementation of the program under this section. Such briefing shall include the following elements:
                     
                        (1)
                        The milestones and timeline to complete such implementation.
                     
                     
                        (2)
                        Resources, including software, hardware, and personnel, necessary for such implementation.
                     
                     
                        (3)
                        A description of potential barriers to implementation of the program, particularly for remote or rural military installations, or installations located in geographic areas with limited access to food.
                     
                     
                        (4)
                        Policies or regulations of the Department of Defense that the Secretary of Defense determines necessary for such implementation.
                     
                     
                        (5)
                        Recommendations of the Secretary of Defense or a Secretary of a military department regarding legislation necessary for such implementation.
                     
                  
               
               
                  1852.
                  DEPARTMENT OF DEFENSE PLAN TO CONSTRUCT MEMORIAL AT ARLINGTON NATIONAL CEMETERY IN COMMEMORATION OF MEMBERS OF THE ARMED FORCES KILLED IN CERTAIN ATTACK AT HAMID KARZAI INTERNATIONAL AIRPORT, KABUL, AFGHANISTAN
                  The Secretary of Defense shall submit to Congress a plan and strategy to construct a memorial in Arlington National Cemetery, Virginia, to commemorate the thirteen members of the Armed Forces killed in the attack at Hamid Karzai International Airport in Kabul, Afghanistan, in August of 2021.
               
               
                  1853.
                  REPORT ON REDUCING MISCONCEPTIONS ABOUT MENTAL HEALTH AND SECURITY CLEARANCE ELIGIBILITY
                  Not later than 180 days after the date of the enactment of this Act, the Secretary shall submit to the Committees on Armed Services of the Senate and House of Representatives a report on the Department’s activities to inform members of the Armed Forces about how mental health affects security clearance eligibility. The report required under this section shall include the following topics:
                  
                     (1)
                     The Department’s outreach and education activities to inform members of the Armed Forces that seeking mental health care will not affect their security clearance status or eligibility.
                  
                  
                     (2)
                     The Department’s outreach and education activities to ensure that health care providers in the military health system, non-medical counselors, TRICARE providers, and other relevant personnel convey accurate information to members of the Armed Forces regarding mental health and security clearance eligibility, making clear that seeking mental health care will not affect their security clearance status or eligibility.
                  
               
               
                  1854.
                  BRIEFING ON IMPLEMENTATION OF RECOMMENDATIONS OF QUALITY OF LIFE PANEL
                  Not later than March 1, 2025, the Secretary of Defense, in coordination with the Secretaries of the military departments, shall provide, to the Committee on Armed Services of the House of Representatives, a briefing on the implementation of the recommendations in the report, dated April, 2024, of the Quality of Life Panel of such Committee. Such briefing shall include—
                  
                     (1)
                     updates to pay and compensation of members of the uniformed services, including—
                     
                        (A)
                        the basic allowance for housing under section 403 of title 37, United States Code; and
                     
                     
                        (B)
                        implementation of any increase to the family separation allowance under section 427 of such title, as authorized by section 626 of the National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2024 (Public Law 118–31);
                     
                  
                  
                     (2)
                     improvements to child care accessibility and affordability;
                  
                  
                     (3)
                     increased transparency on the condition and funding of unaccompanied and privatized family housing;
                  
                  
                     (4)
                     improvements in access to health care; and
                  
                  
                     (5)
                     expansion of support programs for military spouses.
                  
               
            
         
      
      
         B
         Military Construction Authorizations
         
            2001.
            SHORT TITLE
            This division may be cited as the Military Construction Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2025.
         
         
            2002.
            EXPIRATION OF AUTHORIZATIONS AND AMOUNTS REQUIRED TO BE SPECIFIED BY LAW
            
               (a)
               Expiration of authorizations after three years
               Except as provided in subsection (b), all authorizations contained in titles XXI through XXVII for military construction projects, land acquisition, family housing projects and facilities, and contributions to the North Atlantic Treaty Organization Security Investment Program (and authorizations of appropriations therefor) shall expire on the later of—
               
                  (1)
                  October 1, 2027; or
               
               
                  (2)
                  the date of the enactment of an Act authorizing funds for military construction for fiscal year 2028.
               
            
            
               (b)
               Exception
               Subsection (a) shall not apply to authorizations for military construction projects, land acquisition, family housing projects and facilities, and contributions to the North Atlantic Treaty Organization Security Investment Program (and authorizations of appropriations therefor), for which appropriated funds have been obligated before the later of—
               
                  (1)
                  October 1, 2027; or
               
               
                  (2)
                  the date of the enactment of an Act authorizing funds for fiscal year 2028 for military construction projects, land acquisition, family housing projects and facilities, or contributions to the North Atlantic Treaty Organization Security Investment Program.
               
            
         
         
            2003.
            EFFECTIVE DATE
            Titles XXI through XXVII shall take effect on the later of—
            
               (1)
               October 1, 2024; or
            
            
               (2)
               the date of the enactment of this Act.
            
         
         
            XXI
            ARMY MILITARY CONSTRUCTION
            
               2101.
               AUTHORIZED ARMY CONSTRUCTION AND LAND ACQUISITION PROJECTS
               
                  (a)
                  Inside the united states
                  Using amounts appropriated pursuant to the authorization of appropriations in section 2103(a) and available for military construction projects inside the United States as specified in the funding table in section 4601, the Secretary of the Army may acquire real property and carry out military construction projects for the installations or locations inside the United States, and in the amounts, set forth in the following table:
                  
                     
                     
                        Army: Inside the United States
                     
                     
                        
                        
                        
                        
                           
                              
                                 State
                              
                              
                                 Installation
                              
                              
                                 Amount
                              
                           
                        
                        
                           
                              Alaska
                              Fort Wainwright
                              $23,000,000
                           
                           
                              California
                              Concord
                              $68,000,000
                           
                           
                              
                              Fort Irwin
                              $44,000,000
                           
                           
                              Florida
                              Key West Naval Air Station
                              $457,000,000
                           
                           
                              Hawaii
                              Wheeler Army Air Field
                              $231,000,000
                           
                           
                              Kentucky
                              Fort Campbell
                              $11,800,000
                           
                           
                              Louisiana
                              Fort Johnson
                              $117,000,000
                           
                           
                              Maryland
                              Fort Meade
                              $46,000,000
                           
                           
                              Michigan
                              Detroit Arsenal
                              $37,000,000
                           
                           
                              Missouri
                              Fort Leonard Wood
                              $144,000,000
                           
                           
                              New York
                              Watervliet Arsenal
                              $53,000,000
                           
                           
                              North Carolina
                              Fort Liberty
                              $39,000,000
                           
                           
                              Pennsylvania
                              Letterkenny Army Depot
                              $346,000,000
                           
                           
                              Texas
                              Fort Cavazos
                              $147,000,000
                           
                           
                              
                              Red River Army Depot
                              $34,000,000
                           
                           
                              Virginia
                              Joint Base Myer-Henderson Hall
                              $180,000,000
                           
                           
                              Washington
                              Joint Base Lewis-McChord
                              $192,000,000
                           
                        
                     
                  
               
               
                  (b)
                  Outside the United States
                  Using amounts appropriated pursuant to the authorization of appropriations in section 2103(a) and available for military construction projects outside the United States as specified in the funding table in section 4601, the Secretary of the Army may acquire real property and carry out military construction projects for the installations or locations outside the United States, and in the amounts, set forth in the following table:
                  
                     
                     
                        Army: Outside the United States
                     
                     
                        
                        
                        
                        
                           
                              
                                 Country
                              
                              
                                 Installation or Location
                              
                              
                                 Amount
                              
                           
                        
                        
                           
                              Belgium
                              SHAPE Headquarters
                              $45,000,000
                           
                           
                               Germany
                               U.S. Army Garrison Rheinland-Pfalz
                              $61,000,000
                           
                           
                              
                              U.S. Army Garrison Ansbach
                              $191,000,000
                           
                           
                              
                              U.S. Army Garrison Wiesbaden
                              $44,000,000
                           
                        
                     
                  
               
            
            
               2102.
               FAMILY HOUSING
               
                  (a)
                  Construction and acquisition
                  Using amounts appropriated pursuant to the authorization of appropriations in section 2103(a) and available for military family housing functions as specified in the funding table in section 4601, the Secretary of the Army may construct or acquire family housing units (including land acquisition and supporting facilities) at the installations or locations, in the number of units, and in the amounts set forth in the following table:
                  
                     
                     
                        Army: Family Housing
                     
                     
                        
                        
                        
                        
                        
                           
                              
                                 Country
                              
                              
                                 Installation
                              
                              
                                 Units
                              
                              
                                 Amount
                              
                           
                        
                        
                           
                              Belgium
                              Chievres AB
                              Family Housing New Construction (84 units)
                              $100,954,000
                           
                           
                              Germany
                              Baumholder
                              Family Housing Replacement Construction (54 units)
                              $63,246,000
                           
                        
                     
                  
               
               
                  (b)
                  Improvements to military family housing units
                  Subject to section 2825 of title 10, United States Code, and using amounts appropriated pursuant to the authorization of appropriations in section 2103(a) and available for military family housing functions as specified in the funding table in section 4601, the Secretary of the Army may improve existing military family housing units in an amount not to exceed $81,114,000.
               
               
                  (c)
                  Planning and design
                  Using amounts appropriated pursuant to the authorization of appropriations in section 2103(a) and available for military family housing functions as specified in the funding table in section 4601, the Secretary of the Army may carry out architectural and engineering services and construction design activities with respect to the construction or improvement of family housing units in an amount not to exceed $31,333,000.
               
            
            
               2103.
               AUTHORIZATION OF APPROPRIATIONS, ARMY
               
                  (a)
                  Authorization of appropriations
                  Funds are hereby authorized to be appropriated for fiscal years beginning after September 30, 2024, for military construction, land acquisition, and military family housing functions of the Department of the Army as specified in the funding table in section 4601.
               
               
                  (b)
                  Limitation on total cost of construction projects
                  Notwithstanding the cost variations authorized by section 2853 of title 10, United States Code, and any other cost variation authorized by law, the total cost of all projects carried out under sections 2101 and 2102 of this Act may not exceed the total amount authorized to be appropriated under subsection (a), as specified in the funding table in section 4601.
               
            
            
               2104.
               EXTENSION OF AUTHORITY TO CARRY OUT FISCAL YEAR 2018 PROJECT AT KUNSAN AIR BASE, KOREA
               
                  (a)
                  Extension
                  Notwithstanding section 2002 of the Military Construction Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2018 (division B of Public Law 115–91; 131 Stat. 1817), the authorization set forth in the table in subsection (b), as provided in section 2101(b) of that Act (131 Stat. 1819) and extended by section 2106(a) of the Military Construction Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2023 (division B of Public Law 117–263; 136 Stat. 2395) and amended by section 2105 of the Military Construction Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2024 (division B of Public Law 118–31; 137 Stat. 712), shall remain in effect until October 1, 2025, or the date of the enactment of an Act authorizing funds for military construction for fiscal year 2026, whichever is later.
               
               
                  (b)
                  Table
                  The table referred to in subsection (a) is as follows:
                  
                     
                     
                        Army: Extension of 2018 Project Authorization
                     
                     
                        
                        
                        
                        
                        
                           
                              
                                 Country
                              
                              
                                 Installation or Location
                              
                              
                                 Project
                              
                              
                                 Original Authorized Amount
                              
                           
                        
                        
                           
                              Korea
                              Kunsan Air Base
                              Unmanned Aerial Vehicle Hangar
                              $53,000,000
                           
                        
                     
                  
               
            
            
               2105.
               EXTENSION OF AUTHORITY TO CARRY OUT FISCAL YEAR 2019 PROJECT AT MIHAIL KOGALNICEANU FORWARD OPERATING SITE, ROMANIA
               
                  (a)
                  Extension
                  Notwithstanding section 2002 of the Military Construction Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2019 (division B of Public Law 115–232; 132 Stat. 2240), the authorization set forth in the table in subsection (b), as provided in section 2901 of that Act (132 Stat. 2286) and extended by section 2106(b)(1) of the Military Construction Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2024 (division B of Public Law 118–31; 137 Stat. 713), shall remain in effect until October 1, 2025, or the date of the enactment of an Act authorizing funds for military construction for fiscal year 2026, whichever is later.
               
               
                  (b)
                  Table
                  The table referred to in subsection (a) is as follows:
                  
                     
                     
                        Army: Extension of 2019 Project Authorization
                     
                     
                        
                        
                        
                        
                        
                           
                              
                                 Country
                              
                              
                                 Installation or Location
                              
                              
                                 Project
                              
                              
                                 Original Authorized Amount
                              
                           
                        
                        
                           
                              Romania
                              Mihail Kogalniceanu FOS
                              EDI: Explosives and Ammo Load/Unload Apron.
                              $21,651,000
                           
                        
                     
                  
               
            
            
               2106.
               EXTENSION OF AUTHORITY TO CARRY OUT CERTAIN FISCAL YEAR 2020 PROJECTS
               
                  (a)
                  Extension
                  Notwithstanding section 2002 of the Military Construction Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2020 (division B of Public Law 116–92; 133 Stat. 1862), the authorizations set forth in the table in subsection (b), as provided in section 2101 of that Act (133 Stat. 1862), shall remain in effect until October 1, 2025, or the date of the enactment of an Act authorizing funds for military construction for fiscal year 2026, whichever is later.
               
               
                  (b)
                  Table
                  The table referred to in subsection (a) is as follows:
                  
                     
                     
                        Army: Extension of 2020 Project Authorizations
                     
                     
                        
                        
                        
                        
                        
                           
                              
                                 State/Country
                              
                              
                                 Installation or Location
                              
                              
                                 Project
                              
                              
                                 Original Authorized Amount
                              
                           
                        
                        
                           
                              Kwajalein
                              Kwajalein Atoll
                              Air Traffic Control Tower and Terminal
                              $40,000,000
                           
                           
                              South Carolina
                              Fort Jackson
                              Reception Complex, Ph2
                              $88,000,000
                           
                        
                     
                  
               
            
            
               2107.
               EXTENSION OF AUTHORITY TO CARRY OUT CERTAIN FISCAL YEAR 2021 PROJECTS
               
                  (a)
                  Extension
                  Notwithstanding section 2002 of the Military Construction Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2021 (division B of Public Law 116–283; 134 Stat. 4294), the authorizations set forth in the table in subsection (b), as provided in section 2101(a) of that Act (134 Stat. 4295) and extended by section 2107(a) of the Military Construction Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2024 (division B of Public Law 118–31; 137 Stat. 713), shall remain in effect until October 1, 2025, or the date of the enactment of an Act authorizing funds for military construction for fiscal year 2026, whichever is later.
               
               
                  (b)
                  Table
                  The table referred to in subsection (a) is as follows:
                  
                     
                     
                        Army: Extension of 2021 Project Authorizations
                     
                     
                        
                        
                        
                        
                        
                           
                              
                                 State
                              
                              
                                 Installation or Location
                              
                              
                                 Project
                              
                              
                                 Original Authorized Amount
                              
                           
                        
                        
                           
                              Arizona
                              Yuma Proving Ground
                              Ready Building
                              $14,000,000
                           
                           
                              Georgia
                              Fort Gillem
                              Forensic Laboratory
                              $71,000,000
                           
                        
                     
                  
               
            
            
               2108.
               EXTENSION OF AUTHORITY TO CARRY OUT CERTAIN FISCAL YEAR 2022 PROJECTS
               
                  (a)
                  Extension
                  Notwithstanding section 2002 of the Military Construction Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2022 (division B of Public Law 117–81; 135 Stat. 2161), the authorizations set forth in the table in subsection (b), as provided in sections 2101 and 2105 of that Act (135 Stat. 2163, 2165), shall remain in effect until October 1, 2025, or the date of the enactment of an Act authorizing funds for military construction for fiscal year 2026, whichever is later.
               
               
                  (b)
                  Table
                  The table referred to in subsection (a) is as follows:
                  
                     
                     
                        Army: Extension of 2022 Project Authorizations
                     
                     
                        
                        
                        
                        
                        
                           
                              
                                 State/Country
                              
                              
                                 Installation or Location
                              
                              
                                 Project
                              
                              
                                 Original Authorized Amount
                              
                           
                        
                        
                           
                              Georgia
                              Fort Stewart
                              Barracks
                              $105,000,000
                           
                           
                              Germany
                              Smith Barracks
                              Live Fire Exercise Shoothouse
                              $16,000,000
                           
                           
                              
                              Smith Barracks
                              Indoor Small Arms Range
                              $17,500,000
                           
                           
                              Hawaii
                              West Loch Naval Magazine Annex
                              Ammunition Storage
                              $51,000,000
                           
                           
                              
                              Wheeler Army Airfield
                              Aviation Unit OPS Building
                              $84,000,000
                           
                           
                              Kansas
                              Fort Leavenworth
                              Child Development Center
                              $37,000,000
                           
                           
                              Kentucky
                              Fort Knox
                              Child Development Center
                              $30,000,000
                           
                           
                              Louisiana
                              Fort Johnson (Polk)
                              Joint Operations Center
                              $116,000,000
                           
                           
                              Maryland
                              Fort Dietrick
                              Incinerator Facility
                              $27,000,000
                           
                           
                              New Mexico
                              White Sands Missile Range
                              Missile Assembly Support Building
                              $29,000,000
                           
                           
                              Pennsylvania
                              Letterkenny AD 
                              Fire Station
                              $25,400,000
                           
                           
                              Texas
                              Fort Bliss
                              Defense Access Roads
                              $20,000,000
                           
                        
                     
                  
               
            
         
         
            XXII
            NAVY MILITARY CONSTRUCTION
            
               2201.
               AUTHORIZED NAVY CONSTRUCTION AND LAND ACQUISITION PROJECTS
               
                  (a)
                  Inside the United States
                  Using amounts appropriated pursuant to the authorization of appropriations in section 2203(a) and available for military construction projects inside the United States as specified in the funding table in section 4601, the Secretary of the Navy may acquire real property and carry out military construction projects for the installations or locations inside the United States, and in the amounts, set forth in the following table:
                  
                     
                     
                        Navy: Inside the United States
                     
                     
                        
                        
                        
                        
                           
                              
                                 State
                              
                              
                                 Installation or Location
                              
                              
                                 Amount
                              
                           
                        
                        
                           
                              Florida
                              Cape Canaveral Space Force Station
                              $221,060,000
                           
                           
                              Georgia
                              Naval Submarine Base Kings Bay
                              $264,030,000
                           
                           
                              Guam
                              Andersen Air Force Base
                              $78,730,000
                           
                           
                              
                              Joint Region Marinas
                              $107,439,000
                           
                           
                              
                              Naval Base Guam
                              $241,880,000
                           
                           
                              Hawaii
                               Joint Base Pearl Harbor-Hickam
                              $505,000,000
                           
                           
                              
                              Marine Corps Base Kaneohe Bay
                              $203,520,000
                           
                           
                              Nevada
                              Naval Air Station Fallon
                              $48,300,000
                           
                           
                              North Carolina
                              Marine Corps Air Station Cherry Point
                              $747,540,000
                           
                           
                              Virginia
                              Naval Weapons Station Yorktown
                              $151,850,000
                           
                           
                              
                              Norfolk Naval Shipyard
                              $568,200,000
                           
                           
                              Washington
                              Naval Base Kitsap-Bangor
                              $200,550,000
                           
                           
                              
                              Puget Sound Naval Shipyard
                              $182,200,000
                           
                        
                     
                  
               
               
                  (b)
                  Outside the United States
                  Using amounts appropriated pursuant to the authorization of appropriations in section 2203(a) and available for military construction projects outside the United States as specified in the funding table in section 4601, the Secretary of the Navy may acquire real property and carry out military construction projects for the installations or locations outside the United States, and in the amounts, set forth in the following table:
                  
                     
                     
                        Navy: Outside the United States
                     
                     
                        
                        
                        
                        
                           
                              
                                 Country
                              
                              
                                 Installation or Location
                              
                              
                                 Amount
                              
                           
                        
                        
                           
                              Australia
                              Royal Australian Air Force Base Darwin
                              $179,700,000
                           
                        
                     
                  
               
            
            
               2202.
               FAMILY HOUSING
               
                  (a)
                  Construction and acquisition
                  Using amounts appropriated pursuant to the authorization of appropriations in section 2203(a) and available for military family housing functions as specified in the funding table in section 4601, the Secretary of the Navy may construct or acquire family housing units (including land acquisition and supporting facilities) at the installations or locations, and in the amounts, set forth in the following table:
                  
                     
                     
                        Navy: Family Housing
                     
                     
                        
                        
                        
                        
                           
                              
                                 Country or Territory
                              
                              
                                 Installation
                              
                              
                                 Amount
                              
                           
                        
                        
                           
                              Guam
                               Andersen Air Force Base
                              $196,975,000
                           
                        
                     
                  
               
               
                  (b)
                  Improvements to military family housing units
                  Subject to section 2825 of title 10, United States Code, and using amounts appropriated pursuant to the authorization of appropriations in section 2203(a) and available for military family housing functions as specified in the funding table in section 4601, the Secretary of the Navy may improve existing military family housing units in an amount not to exceed $35,438,000.
               
               
                  (c)
                  Planning and design
                  Using amounts appropriated pursuant to the authorization of appropriations in section 2203(a) and available for military family housing functions as specified in the funding table in section 4601, the Secretary of the Navy may carry out architectural and engineering services and construction design activities with respect to the construction or improvement of family housing units in an amount not to exceed $13,329,000.
               
            
            
               2203.
               AUTHORIZATION OF APPROPRIATIONS, NAVY
               
                  (a)
                  Authorization of appropriations
                  Funds are hereby authorized to be appropriated for fiscal years beginning after September 30, 2024, for military construction, land acquisition, and military family housing functions of the Department of the Navy, as specified in the funding table in section 4601.
               
               
                  (b)
                  Limitation on total cost of construction projects
                  Notwithstanding the cost variations authorized by section 2853 of title 10, United States Code, and any other cost variation authorized by law, the total cost of all projects carried out under sections 2201 and 2202 of this Act may not exceed the total amount authorized to be appropriated under subsection (a), as specified in the funding table in section 4601.
               
            
            
               2204.
               EXTENSION OF AUTHORITY TO CARRY OUT CERTAIN FISCAL YEAR 2019 PROJECTS
               
                  (a)
                  Extension
                  Notwithstanding section 2002 of the Military Construction Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2019 (division B of Public Law 115–232; 132 Stat. 2240) the authorizations set forth in the table in subsection (b), as provided in section 2201(b) and 2902 of that Act (132 Stat. 2244, 2286) and extended by section 2204 of the Military Construction Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2024 (division B of Public Law 118–31; 137 Stat. 716), shall remain in effect until October 1, 2025, or the date of the enactment of an Act authorizing funds for military construction for fiscal year 2026, whichever is later.
               
               
                  (b)
                  Table
                  The table referred to in subsection (a) is as follows:
                  
                     
                     
                        Navy: Extension of 2019 Project Authorizations
                     
                     
                        
                        
                        
                        
                        
                           
                              
                                 Country
                              
                              
                                 Installation or Location
                              
                              
                                 Project
                              
                              
                                 Original Authorized Amount
                              
                           
                        
                        
                           
                              Bahrain
                              SW Asia
                              Fleet Maintenance Facility and TOC
                              $26,340,000
                           
                           
                              Greece
                              Naval Support Activity Souda Bay
                              EDI: Joint Mobility Processing Center
                              $41,650,000
                           
                        
                     
                  
               
            
            
               2205.
               EXTENSION OF AUTHORITY TO CARRY OUT FISCAL YEAR 2020 PROJECT AT MARINE CORPS AIR STATION YUMA, ARIZONA
               
                  (a)
                  Extension
                  Notwithstanding section 2002 of the Military Construction Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2020 (division B of Public Law 116–92; 133 Stat. 1862) the authorizations set forth in the table in subsection (b), as provided in sections 2201(a) and 2809 of that Act (133 Stat. 1865, 1887), shall remain in effect until October 1, 2025, or the date of the enactment of an Act authorizing funds for military construction for fiscal year 2026, whichever is later.
               
               
                  (b)
                  Table
                  The table referred to in subsection (a) is as follows:
                  
                     
                     
                        Navy: Extension of 2020 Project Authorizations
                     
                     
                        
                        
                        
                        
                        
                           
                              
                                 State
                              
                              
                                 Installation or Location
                              
                              
                                 Project
                              
                              
                                 Original Authorized Amount
                              
                           
                        
                        
                           
                              Arizona
                              Marine Corps Air Station Yuma
                              Bachelor Enlisted Quarters
                              $99,600,000
                           
                        
                     
                  
               
            
            
               2206.
               EXTENSION OF AUTHORITY TO CARRY OUT CERTAIN FISCAL YEAR 2021 PROJECTS
               
                  (a)
                  Extension
                  Notwithstanding section 2002 of the Military Construction Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2021 (division B of Public Law 116–283; 134 Stat. 4294), the authorizations set forth in the table in subsection (b), as provided in section 2201 of that Act (134 Stat. 4297) and extended by section 2205 of the Military Construction Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2024 (division B of Public Law 118–31; 137 Stat. 718), shall remain in effect until October 1, 2025, or the date of the enactment of an Act authorizing funds for military construction for fiscal year 2026, whichever is later.
               
               
                  (b)
                  Table
                  The table referred to in subsection (a) is as follows:
                  
                     
                     
                        Navy: Extension of 2021 Project Authorizations
                     
                     
                        
                        
                        
                        
                        
                           
                              
                                 State/Country
                              
                              
                                 Installation or Location
                              
                              
                                 Project
                              
                              
                                 Original Authorized Amount
                              
                           
                        
                        
                           
                              Guam
                              Joint Region Marianas
                              Joint Communications Upgrade
                              $22,000,000
                           
                           
                              Maine
                              NCTAMS LANT Detachment Cutler
                              Perimeter Security
                              $26,100,000
                           
                           
                              Nevada
                              Fallon
                              Range Training Complex, Phase 1
                              $29,040,000
                           
                        
                     
                  
               
            
            
               2207.
               EXTENSION OF AUTHORITY TO CARRY OUT CERTAIN FISCAL YEAR 2022 PROJECTS
               
                  (a)
                  Extension
                  Notwithstanding section 2002 of the Military Construction Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2022 (division B of Public Law 117–81; 135 Stat. 2161), the authorizations set forth in the table in subsection (b), as provided in sections 2201 and 2202(a) of that Act (135 Stat. 2166, 2167), shall remain in effect until October 1, 2025, or the date of the enactment of an Act authorizing funds for military construction for fiscal year 2026, whichever is later.
               
               
                  (b)
                  Table
                  The table referred to in subsection (a) is as follows:
                  
                     
                     
                        Navy: Extension of 2022 Project Authorizations
                     
                     
                        
                        
                        
                        
                        
                           
                              
                                 State/Country
                              
                              
                                 Installation or Location
                              
                              
                                 Project
                              
                              
                                 Original Authorized Amount
                              
                           
                        
                        
                           
                              Arizona
                              Marine Corps Air Station Yuma
                              Combat Training Tank Complex
                              $29,300,000
                           
                           
                              California
                              Naval Base Ventura County
                              MQ–25 Aircraft Maintenance Hangar
                              $125,291,000
                           
                           
                              
                              Marine Corps Air Station Miramar
                              F–35 Centralized Engine Repair Facility
                              $31,400,000
                           
                           
                              
                              Marine Corps Base Camp Pendleton
                              CLB MEU Complex
                              $83,900,000
                           
                           
                              
                              Marine Corps Base Camp Pendleton
                              Warehouse Replacement
                              $22,200,000
                           
                           
                              District of Columbia
                              Marine Barracks Washington
                              Family Housing Improvements
                              $10,415,000
                           
                           
                              Florida
                              Marine Corps Support Facility Blount Island
                              Lighterage and Small Craft Facility
                              $69,400,000
                           
                           
                              Hawaii
                              Marine Corps Base Kaneohe
                              Electrical Distribution Modernization
                              $64,500,000
                           
                           
                              South Carolina
                              Marine Corps Air Station Beaufort
                              Aircraft Maintenance Hangar
                              $122,600,000
                           
                           
                              Spain
                              Naval Station Rota
                              EDI: Explosive Ordnance Disposal (EOD) Mobile Unit Facilities
                              $85,600,000
                           
                        
                     
                  
               
            
         
         
            XXIII
            AIR FORCE MILITARY CONSTRUCTION
            
               2301.
               AUTHORIZED AIR FORCE CONSTRUCTION AND LAND ACQUISITION PROJECTS
               
                  (a)
                  Inside the united states
                  Using amounts appropriated pursuant to the authorization of appropriations in section 2303(a) and available for military construction projects inside the United States as specified in the funding table in section 4601, the Secretary of the Air Force may acquire real property and carry out military construction projects for the installations or locations inside the United States, and in the amounts, set forth in the following table:
                  
                     
                     
                        Air Force: Inside the United States
                     
                     
                        
                        
                        
                        
                           
                              
                                 State
                              
                              
                                 Installation or Location
                              
                              
                                 Amount
                              
                           
                        
                        
                           
                              Alaska
                              Joint Base Elmendorf-Richardson
                              $250,000,000
                           
                           
                              Arkansas
                              Ebbing Air National Guard Base
                              $73,000,000 
                           
                           
                              California
                              Beale Air Force Base
                              $148,000,000 
                           
                           
                              
                              Vandenberg Space Force Base
                              $277,000,000 
                           
                           
                              Colorado
                              Buckley Space Force Base
                              $57,611,000
                           
                           
                              Florida
                              Cape Canaveral Space Force Station
                              $11,400,000
                           
                           
                              Idaho
                              Mountain Home Air Force Base
                              $40,000,000 
                           
                           
                              Louisiana
                              Barksdale Air Force Base
                              $22,000,000
                           
                           
                              Massachusetts
                              Hanscom Air Force Base
                              $315,000,000 
                           
                           
                              Montana
                              Malmstrom Air Force Base
                              $20,000,000
                           
                           
                              North Carolina
                              Seymour-Johnson Air Force Base
                              $41,000,000
                           
                           
                              Ohio
                              Wright-Patterson Air Force Base
                              $45,000,000
                           
                           
                              Oregon
                              Mountain Home Air Force Base
                              $1,093,000,00 
                           
                           
                              South Dakota
                              Ellsworth Air Force Base
                              $177,000,000
                           
                           
                              Tennessee
                              Arnold Air Force Base
                              $21,400,000
                           
                           
                              Texas
                              Dyess Air Force Base
                              $31,300,000
                           
                           
                              
                              Joint Base San Antonio
                              $684,000,000 
                           
                           
                              
                              Laughlin Air Force Base
                              $56,000,000
                           
                           
                              Utah
                              Hill Air Force Base
                              $258,000,000
                           
                           
                              Virginia
                              Joint Base Langley-Eustis
                              $81,000,000
                           
                           
                              Wyoming
                              F.E. Warren Air Force Base
                              $1,581,000,000
                           
                        
                     
                  
               
               
                  (b)
                  Outside the united states
                  Using amounts appropriated pursuant to the authorization of appropriations in section 2303(a) and available for military construction projects outside the United States as specified in the funding table in section 4601, the Secretary of the Air Force may acquire real property and carry out military construction projects for the installations or locations outside the United States, and in the amounts, set forth in the following table:
                  
                     
                     
                        Air Force: Outside the United States
                     
                     
                        
                        
                        
                        
                           
                              
                                 Country
                              
                              
                                 Installation or Location
                              
                              
                                 Amount
                              
                           
                        
                        
                           
                              Denmark
                              Royal Danish Air Force Base Karup
                              $110,000,000
                           
                           
                              Federated States of Micronesia
                              Yap International Airport
                              $400,314,000
                           
                           
                              Spain
                              Naval Station Rota
                              $15,200,000
                           
                           
                              United Kingdom
                              Royal Air Force Lakenheath
                              $185,000,000 
                           
                           
                              
                              Royal Air Force Mildenhall
                              $51,000,000
                           
                        
                     
                  
               
            
            
               2302.
               FAMILY HOUSING
               
                  (a)
                  Construction and acquisition
                  Using amounts appropriated pursuant to the authorization of appropriations in section 2303(a) and available for military family housing functions as specified in the funding table in section 4601, the Secretary of the Air Force may construct or acquire family housing units (including land acquisition and supporting facilities) at the installations or locations and in the amounts set forth in the following table:
                  
                     
                     
                        Air Force: Family Housing
                     
                     
                        
                        
                        
                        
                           
                              
                                 Country
                              
                              
                                 Installation
                              
                              
                                 Amount
                              
                           
                        
                        
                           
                              Germany
                              Ramstein Air Base
                              $5,750,000
                           
                        
                     
                  
               
               
                  (b)
                  Improvements to military family housing units
                  Subject to section 2825 of title 10, United States Code, and using amounts appropriated pursuant to the authorization of appropriations in section 2303(a) and available for military family housing functions as specified in the funding table in section 4601, the Secretary of the Air Force may improve existing military family housing units in an amount not to exceed $209,242,000.
               
               
                  (c)
                  Planning and design
                  Using amounts appropriated pursuant to the authorization of appropriations in section 2303(a) and available for military family housing functions as specified in the funding table in section 4601, the Secretary of the Air Force may carry out architectural and engineering services and construction design activities with respect to the construction or improvement of family housing units in an amount not to exceed $6,557,000.
               
            
            
               2303.
               AUTHORIZATION OF APPROPRIATIONS, AIR FORCE
               
                  (a)
                  Authorization of appropriations
                  Funds are hereby authorized to be appropriated for fiscal years beginning after September 30, 2024, for military construction, land acquisition, and military family housing functions of the Department of the Air Force, as specified in the funding table in section 4601.
               
               
                  (b)
                  Limitation on total cost of construction projects
                  Notwithstanding the cost variations authorized by section 2853 of title 10, United States Code, and any other cost variation authorized by law, the total cost of all projects carried out under sections 2301 and 2302 of this Act may not exceed the total amount authorized to be appropriated under subsection (a), as specified in the funding table in section 4601.
               
            
            
               2304.
               EXTENSION OF AUTHORITY TO CARRY OUT FISCAL YEAR 2017 PROJECT AT SPANGDAHLEM AIR BASE, GERMANY
               
                  (a)
                  Extension
                  Notwithstanding section 2002 of the Military Construction Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2017 (division B of Public Law 114–328; 130 Stat. 2688), the authorization set forth in the table in subsection (b), as provided in section 2902 of that Act (130 Stat. 2743) and extended by section 2304 of the Military Construction Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2022 (division B of Public Law 117–81; 135 Stat. 2169) and amended by section 2304(b) of the Military Construction Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2024 (division B of Public Law 118–31; 137 Stat. 721), shall remain in effect until October 1, 2025, or the date of the enactment of an Act authorizing funds for military construction for fiscal year 2026, whichever is later.
               
               
                  (b)
                  Table
                  The table referred to in subsection (a) is as follows:
                  
                     
                     
                        Air Force: Extension of 2017 Project Authorization
                     
                     
                        
                        
                        
                        
                        
                           
                              
                                 Country
                              
                              
                                 Installation or Location
                              
                              
                                 Project
                              
                              
                                 Original Authorized Amount
                              
                           
                        
                        
                           
                              Germany
                              Spangdahlem Air Base
                              ERI: F/A–22 Low Observable/Comp Repair Fac.
                              $12,000,000
                           
                        
                     
                  
               
            
            
               2305.
               EXTENSION OF AUTHORITY TO CARRY OUT CERTAIN FISCAL YEAR 2018 PROJECTS
               
                  (a)
                  Extension
                  Notwithstanding section 2002 of the Military Construction Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2018 (division B of Public Law 115–91; 131 Stat. 1817), the authorizations set forth in the table in subsection (b), as provided in section 2903 of that Act (131 Stat. 1876) and extended by section 2304(b) of the Military Construction Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2023 (division B of Public Law 117–263; 136 Stat. 2980) and amended by section 2305(b) of the Military Construction Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2024 (division B of Public Law 118–31; 137 Stat. 722), shall remain in effect until October 1, 2025, or the date of the enactment of an Act authorizing funds for military construction for fiscal year 2026, whichever is later.
               
               
                  (b)
                  Table
                  The table referred to in subsection (a) is as follows:
                  
                     
                     
                        Air Force: Extension of 2018 Project Authorizations
                     
                     
                        
                        
                        
                        
                        
                           
                              
                                 Country
                              
                              
                                 Installation or Location
                              
                              
                                 Project
                              
                              
                                 Original Authorized Amount
                              
                           
                        
                        
                           
                              Hungary
                              Kecskemet Air Base
                              ERI: Airfield Upgrades
                              $12,900,000
                           
                           
                              
                              Kecskemet Air Base
                              ERI: Construct Parallel Taxiway
                              $30,000,000
                           
                           
                              
                              Kecskemet Air Base
                              ERI: Increase POL Storage Capacity
                              $12,500,000
                           
                           
                              Slovakia
                              Malacky
                              ERI: Increase POL Storage Capacity
                              $20,000,000
                           
                        
                     
                  
               
            
            
               2306.
               EXTENSION OF AUTHORITY TO CARRY OUT CERTAIN FISCAL YEAR 2019 PROJECTS
               
                  (a)
                  Extension
                  Notwithstanding section 2002 of the Military Construction Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2019 (division B of Public Law 115–232; 132 Stat. 2240), the authorizations set forth in the table in subsection (b), as provided in section 2903 of that Act (132 Stat. 2287) and extended by section 2306(b) of the Military Construction Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2024 (division B of Public Law 118–31; 137 Stat. 724), shall remain in effect until October 1, 2025, or the date of the enactment of an Act authorizing funds for military construction for fiscal year 2026, whichever is later.
               
               
                  (b)
                  Table
                  The table referred to in subsection (a) is as follows:
                  
                     
                     
                        Air Force: Extension of 2019 Project Authorizations
                     
                     
                        
                        
                        
                        
                        
                           
                              
                                 Country
                              
                              
                                 Installation or Location
                              
                              
                                 Project
                              
                              
                                 Original Authorized Amount
                              
                           
                        
                        
                           
                              United Kingdom
                              Royal Air Force Fairford
                              EDI: Construct DABS-FEV Storage
                              $87,000,000
                           
                           
                              
                              Royal Air Force Fairford
                              EDI: Munitions Holding Area
                              $19,000,000
                           
                        
                     
                  
               
            
            
               2307.
               EXTENSION OF AUTHORITY TO CARRY OUT CERTAIN FISCAL YEAR 2020 PROJECTS
               
                  (a)
                  Extension
                  Notwithstanding section 2002 of the Military Construction Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2020 (division B of Public Law 116–92; 133 Stat. 1862), the authorizations set forth in the table in subsection (b), as provided in sections 2301(a) and 2912(a) of that Act (133 Stat. 1867, 1913), shall remain in effect until October 1, 2025, or the date of the enactment of an Act authorizing funds for military construction for fiscal year 2026, whichever is later.
               
               
                  (b)
                  Table
                  The table referred to in subsection (a) is as follows:
                  
                     
                     
                        Air Force: Extension of 2020 Project Authorizations
                     
                     
                        
                        
                        
                        
                        
                           
                              
                                 State
                              
                              
                                 Installation or Location
                              
                              
                                 Project
                              
                              
                                 Original Authorized Amount
                              
                           
                        
                        
                           
                              Florida
                              Tyndall Air Force Base
                              Deployment Center/Flight Line Dining/AAFES
                              $43,000,000
                           
                           
                              New Mexico
                              Kirtland Air Force Base
                              Combat Rescue Helicopter Simulator (CRH) ADAL
                              $15,500,000
                           
                           
                              Texas
                              Joint Base San Antonio
                              BMT Recruit Dormitory 8
                              $110,000,000
                           
                           
                              Washington
                              Fairchild-White Bluff
                              Consolidated TFI Base Operations
                              $31,000,000
                           
                        
                     
                  
               
            
            
               2308.
               EXTENSION OF AUTHORITY TO CARRY OUT FISCAL YEAR 2021 PROJECT AT JOINT BASE LANGLEY-EUSTIS, VIRGINIA
               
                  (a)
                  Extension
                  Notwithstanding section 2002 of the Military Construction Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2021 (division B of Public Law 116–283; 134 Stat. 4294), the authorization set forth in the table in subsection (b), as provided in section 2301(a) of that Act (132 Stat. 2287) and extended by section 2307(a) of the Military Construction Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2024 (division B of Public Law 118–31; 137 Stat. 725), shall remain in effect until October 1, 2025, or the date of the enactment of an Act authorizing funds for military construction for fiscal year 2026, whichever is later.
               
               
                  (b)
                  Table
                  The table referred to in subsection (a) is as follows:
                  
                     
                     
                        Air Force: Extension of 2021 Project Authorization
                     
                     
                        
                        
                        
                        
                        
                           
                              
                                 State
                              
                              
                                 Installation or Location
                              
                              
                                 Project
                              
                              
                                 Original Authorized Amount
                              
                           
                        
                        
                           
                              Virginia
                              Joint Base Langley-Eustis
                              Access Control Point Main Gate With Land Acq
                              $19,500,000
                           
                        
                     
                  
               
            
            
               2309.
               EXTENSION OF AUTHORITY TO CARRY OUT CERTAIN FISCAL YEAR 2022 PROJECTS
               
                  (a)
                  Extension
                  Notwithstanding section 2002 of the Military Construction Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2022 (division B of Public Law 117–81; 135 Stat. 2161), the authorizations set forth in the table in subsection (b), as provided in section 2301 of that Act (135 Stat. 2168), shall remain in effect until October 1, 2025, or the date of the enactment of an Act authorizing funds for military construction for fiscal year 2026, whichever is later.
               
               
                  (b)
                  Table
                  The table referred to in subsection (a) is as follows:
                  
                     
                     
                        Air Force: Extension of 2022 Project Authorizations
                     
                     
                        
                        
                        
                        
                        
                           
                              
                                 State/Country
                              
                              
                                 Installation or Location
                              
                              
                                 Project
                              
                              
                                 Original Authorized Amount
                              
                           
                        
                        
                           
                              Australia
                              Royal Australian Air Force Base Darwin
                              Squadron Operations Facility
                              $7,400,000
                           
                           
                              
                              Royal Australian Air Force Base Tindal
                              Aircraft Maintenance Support Facility
                              $6,200,000
                           
                           
                              
                              Royal Australian Air Force Base Tindal
                              Squadron Operations Facility
                              $8,200,000
                           
                           
                              Massachusetts
                              Hanscom Air Force Base
                              NC3 Acquisitions Management Facility
                              $66,000,000
                           
                           
                              United Kingdom
                              Royal Air Force Lakenheath
                              F–35A Child Development Center
                              $24,000,000
                           
                           
                              
                              Royal Air Force Lakenheath
                              F–35A Munition Inspection Facility
                              $31,000,000
                           
                           
                              
                              Royal Air Force Lakenheath
                              F–35A Weapons Load Training Facility
                              $49,000,000
                           
                        
                     
                  
               
            
         
         
            XXIV
            DEFENSE AGENCIES MILITARY CONSTRUCTION
            
               2401.
               AUTHORIZED DEFENSE AGENCIES CONSTRUCTION AND LAND ACQUISITION PROJECTS
               
                  (a)
                  Inside the United States
                  Using amounts appropriated pursuant to the authorization of appropriations in section 2403(a) and available for military construction projects inside the United States as specified in the funding table in section 4601, the Secretary of Defense may acquire real property and carry out military construction projects for the installations or locations inside the United States, and in the amounts, set forth in the following table:
                  
                     
                     
                        Defense Agencies: Inside the United States
                     
                     
                        
                        
                        
                        
                           
                              
                                 State or Territory
                              
                              
                                 Installation or Location 
                              
                              
                                 Amount
                              
                           
                        
                        
                           
                              Alaska
                              Eielson Air Force Base
                              $14,000,000
                           
                           
                              
                              Joint Base Elmendorf-Richardson
                              $55,000,000
                           
                           
                              Arizona
                              Marine Corps Air Station Yuma
                              $62,000,000 
                           
                           
                               California
                              Marine Corps Base Camp Pendleton
                              $96,410,000
                           
                           
                              
                              Marine Corps Mountain Warfare Training Center Bridgeport
                              $19,300,000
                           
                           
                              
                              Naval Base Coronado
                              $51,000,000
                           
                           
                              Colorado
                              Fort Carson
                              $41,000,000
                           
                           
                              Florida
                              Hurlburt Field
                              $14,000,000
                           
                           
                              Georgia
                              Hunter Army Airfield
                              $63,800,000
                           
                           
                              Guam
                              Joint Region Marianas
                              $929,224,000
                           
                           
                              Missouri
                              Whiteman Air Force Base
                              $19,500,000
                           
                           
                              North Carolina
                              Fort Liberty
                              $11,800,000
                           
                           
                              
                              Marine Corps Base Camp Lejeune
                              $25,400,000
                           
                           
                              South Carolina
                              Marine Corps Air Station Beaufort
                              $31,500,000
                           
                           
                              
                              Marine Corps Recruit Depot Parris Island
                              $72,050,000
                           
                           
                              Texas
                               Naval Air Station Corpus Christi
                              $79,300,000
                           
                           
                              
                              NSA Texas (NSAT)
                              $347,000,000
                           
                           
                              Virginia
                              Fort Belvoir
                              $225,000,000
                           
                           
                              
                              Joint Expeditionary Base Little Creek-Fort Story
                              $32,000,000
                           
                           
                              
                              Pentagon
                              $36,800,000
                           
                           
                              Washington
                              Naval Air Station Whidbey Island
                              $54,000,000
                           
                           
                              
                              Naval Undersea Warfare Center Keyport
                              $35,000,000
                           
                        
                     
                  
               
               
                  (b)
                  Outside the United States
                  Using amounts appropriated pursuant to the authorization of appropriations in section 2403(a) and available for military construction projects outside the United States as specified in the funding table in section 4601, the Secretary of Defense may acquire real property and carry out military construction projects for the installations or locations outside the United States, and in the amounts, set forth in the following table:
                  
                     
                     
                        Defense Agencies: Outside the United States
                     
                     
                        
                        
                        
                        
                           
                              
                                 Country
                              
                              
                                 Installation or Location
                              
                              
                                 Amount
                              
                           
                        
                        
                           
                              Japan
                              Marine Corps Base Camp Smedley D. Butler
                              $160,000,000
                           
                           
                              Korea
                              Kunsan Air Base
                              $64,942,000
                           
                           
                              United Kingdom
                              Royal Air Force Lakenheath
                              $153,000,000
                           
                        
                     
                  
               
            
            
               2402.
               AUTHORIZED ENERGY RESILIENCE AND CONSERVATION INVESTMENT PROGRAM PROJECTS
               
                  (a)
                  Inside the United States
                  Using amounts appropriated pursuant to the authorization of appropriations in section 2403(a) and available for energy conservation projects as specified in the funding table in section 4601, the Secretary of Defense may carry out energy conservation projects under chapter 173 of title 10, United States Code, for the installations or locations inside the United States, and in the amounts, set forth in the following table:
                  
                     
                     
                        ERCIP Projects: Inside the United States
                     
                     
                        
                        
                        
                        
                           
                              
                                 State
                              
                              
                                 Installation or Location
                              
                              
                                  Amount
                              
                           
                        
                        
                           
                              Alabama
                              Anniston Army Depot
                              $56,450,000
                           
                           
                               Delaware
                              Major Joseph R. Beau Biden III National Guard/Reserve Center
                              $22,050,000
                           
                           
                              Illinois
                              Rock Island Arsenal
                              $70,480,000
                           
                           
                              Indiana
                              Camp Atterbury-Muscatatuck
                              $39,180,000
                           
                           
                              Maine
                              Naval Shipyard Portsmouth
                              $28,700,000
                           
                           
                              Maryland
                              Aberdeen Proving Ground
                              $30,730,000
                           
                           
                              
                              Joint Base Andrews
                              $17,920,000
                           
                           
                              New Jersey
                              Joint Base McGuire-Dix-Lakehurst
                              $17,730,000
                           
                           
                              Ohio
                              Wright-Patterson Air Force Base
                              $53,000,000
                           
                           
                              Washington
                              Joint Base Lewis-McChord-Gray Army Airfield
                              $40,000,000
                           
                           
                              
                              Naval Magazine Indian Island
                              $39,490,000
                           
                        
                     
                  
               
               
                  (b)
                  Outside the United States
                  Using amounts appropriated pursuant to the authorization of appropriations in section 2403(a) and available for energy conservation projects as specified in the funding table in section 4601, the Secretary of Defense may carry out energy conservation projects under chapter 173 of title 10, United States Code, for the installations or locations outside the United States, and in the amounts, set forth in the following table:
                  
                     
                     
                        ERCIP Projects: Outside the United States
                     
                     
                        
                        
                        
                        
                           
                              
                                 Country
                              
                              
                                 Installation or Location
                              
                              
                                  Amount
                              
                           
                        
                        
                           
                              Bahrain
                              Naval Support Activity Bahrain
                              $15,330,000
                           
                           
                               Greece
                              Naval Support Activity Souda Bay
                              $42,500,000
                           
                           
                              Italy
                              Naval Air Station Sigonella
                              $13,470,000
                           
                           
                              Japan
                              Camp Fuji
                              $45,870,000
                           
                        
                     
                  
               
               
                  (c)
                  Improvement of conveyed utility systems
                  In the case of a utility system that is conveyed under section 2688 of title 10, United States Code, and that only provides utility services to a military installation, notwithstanding subchapters I and III of chapter169 and chapters 221 and 223 of title 10, United States Code, the Secretary of Defense or the Secretary of a military department may authorize a contract with the conveyee of the utility system to carry out the military construction projects set forth in the following table:
                  
                     
                     
                        Improvement of Conveyed Utility Systems
                     
                     
                        
                        
                        
                        
                           
                              
                                 State
                              
                              
                                 Installation or Location
                              
                              
                                 Project
                              
                           
                        
                        
                           
                              Maryland
                              Aberdeen Proving Ground
                              Power Generation and Microgrid
                           
                           
                              Washington
                              Joint-Base Lewis-McChord Gray Army Airfield
                              Power Generation and Microgrid
                           
                        
                     
                  
               
            
            
               2403.
               AUTHORIZATION OF APPROPRIATIONS, DEFENSE AGENCIES
               
                  (a)
                  Authorization of appropriations
                  Funds are hereby authorized to be appropriated for fiscal years beginning after September 30, 2024, for military construction, land acquisition, and military family housing functions of the Department of Defense (other than the military departments), as specified in the funding table in section 4601.
               
               
                  (b)
                  Limitation on total cost of construction projects
                  Notwithstanding the cost variations authorized by section 2853 of title 10, United States Code, and any other cost variation authorized by law, the total cost of all projects carried out under sections 2401 and 2402 of this Act may not exceed the total amount authorized to be appropriated under subsection (a), as specified in the funding table in section 4601.
               
            
            
               2404.
               EXTENSION OF AUTHORITY TO CARRY OUT FISCAL YEAR 2018 PROJECT AT IWAKUNI, JAPAN
               
                  (a)
                  Extension
                  Notwithstanding section 2002 of the Military Construction Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2018 (division B of Public Law 115–91; 131 Stat. 1817), the authorization set forth in the table in subsection (b), as provided in section 2401(b) of that Act (131 Stat. 1829) and extended by section 2404 of the Military Construction Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2023 (division B of Public Law 117–263; 136 Stat.2984) and amended by section 2404 of the Military Construction Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2024 (division B of Public Law 118–31; 137 Stat. 728), shall remain in effect until October 1, 2025, or the date of the enactment of an Act authorizing funds for military construction for fiscal year 2026, whichever is later.
               
               
                  (b)
                  Table
                  The table referred to in subsection (a) is as follows:
                  
                     
                     
                        Defense Agencies: Extension of 2018 Project Authorization
                     
                     
                        
                        
                        
                        
                        
                           
                              
                                 Country
                              
                              
                                 Installation or Location
                              
                              
                                 Project
                              
                              
                                 Original Authorized Amount
                              
                           
                        
                        
                           
                              Japan
                              Iwakuni
                              PDI: Construct Bulk Storage Tanks PH 1
                              $30,800,000
                           
                        
                     
                  
               
            
            
               2405.
               EXTENSION OF AUTHORITY TO CARRY OUT FISCAL YEAR 2019 PROJECT AT IWAKUNI, JAPAN
               
                  (a)
                  Extension
                  Notwithstanding section 2002 of the Military Construction Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2019 (division B of Public Law 115–232; 132 Stat. 2240), the authorization set forth in the table in subsection (b), as provided in section 2401(b) of that Act (132 Stat. 2250) and extended by section 2405(a) of the Military Construction Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2024 (division B of Public Law 118–31; 137 Stat. 729), shall remain in effect until October 1, 2025, or the date of the enactment of an Act authorizing funds for military construction for fiscal year 2026, whichever is later.
               
               
                  (b)
                  Table
                  The table referred to in subsection (a) is as follows:
                  
                     
                     
                        Defense Agencies: Extension of 2019 Project Authorization
                     
                     
                        
                        
                        
                        
                        
                           
                              
                                 Country
                              
                              
                                 Installation or Location
                              
                              
                                 Project
                              
                              
                                 Original Authorized Amount
                              
                           
                        
                        
                           
                              Japan
                              Iwakuni
                              Fuel Pier
                              $33,200,000
                           
                        
                     
                  
               
            
            
               2406.
               EXTENSION OF AUTHORITY TO CARRY OUT FISCAL YEAR 2020 PROJECT AT FORT INDIANTOWN GAP, PENNSYLVANIA
               
                  (a)
                  Extension
                  Notwithstanding section 2002 of the Military Construction Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2020 (division B of Public Law 116–92; 133 Stat. 1862), the authorization set forth in the table in subsection (b), as authorized pursuant to section 2402 of such Act (133 Stat. 1872), shall remain in effect until October 1, 2025, or the date of the enactment of an Act authorizing funds for military construction for fiscal year 2026, whichever is later.
               
               
                  (b)
                  Table
                  The table referred to in subsection (a) is as follows:
                  
                     
                     
                        ERCIP Project: Extension of 2020 Project Authorization
                     
                     
                        
                        
                        
                        
                        
                           
                              
                                 State/Country
                              
                              
                                 Installation or Location
                              
                              
                                 Project
                              
                              
                                 Original Authorized Amount
                              
                           
                        
                        
                           
                              Pennsylvania
                              Fort Indiantown Gap
                              Install Geothermal and 413 kW Solar Photovoltaic (PV) Array
                              $3,950,000
                           
                        
                     
                  
               
            
            
               2407.
               EXTENSION OF AUTHORITY TO CARRY OUT CERTAIN FISCAL YEAR 2021 PROJECTS
               
                  (a)
                  Extension
                  Notwithstanding section 2002 of the Military Construction Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2021 (division B of Public Law 116–283; 134 Stat. 4294), the authorization set forth in the table in subsection (b), as provided in sections 2401(b) and 2402 of that Act (134 Stat. 4305, 4306) and extended by sections 2406 and 2407 of the Military Construction Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2024 (division B of Public Law 118–31; 137 Stat. 730), shall remain in effect until October 1, 2025, or the date of the enactment of an Act authorizing funds for military construction for fiscal year 2026, whichever is later.
               
               
                  (b)
                  Table
                  The table referred to in subsection (a) is as follows:
                  
                     
                     
                        Defense Agencies and ERCIP Projects: Extension of 2021 Project Authorizations
                     
                     
                        
                        
                        
                        
                        
                           
                              
                                 State/Country
                              
                              
                                 Installation or Location
                              
                              
                                 Project
                              
                              
                                 Original Authorized Amount
                              
                           
                        
                        
                           
                              Arkansas
                              Ebbing Air National Guard Base
                              PV Arrays and Battery Storage
                              $2,600,000
                           
                           
                              California
                              Marine Corps Air Ground Combat Center Twentynine Palms
                              Install 10 Mw Battery Energy Storage for Various Buildings
                              $11,646,000
                           
                           
                              
                              Naval Support Activity Monterey
                              Cogeneration Plant at B236
                              $10,540,000
                           
                           
                              Italy
                              Naval Support Activity Naples
                              Smart Grid
                              $3,490,000
                           
                           
                              Japan
                              Def Fuel Support Point Tsurumi
                              Fuel Wharf
                              $49,500,000
                           
                        
                     
                  
               
            
            
               2408.
               MODIFICATION OF AUTHORITY TO CARRY OUT FISCAL YEAR 2022 PROJECT AT JOINT BASE ANACOSTIA-BOLLING, DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA
               In the case of the authorization contained in the table in section 2402(a) of the Military Construction Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2022 (division B of Public Law 117–81; 135 Stat. 2174) for Joint Base Anacostia-Bolling, District of Columbia, for construction of PV carports, the Secretary of Defense may install a 1.0-megawatt battery energy storage system for a total project amount of $40,650,000.
            
            
               2409.
               EXTENSION OF AUTHORITY TO CARRY OUT CERTAIN FISCAL YEAR 2022 PROJECTS
               
                  (a)
                  Extension
                  Notwithstanding section 2002 of the Military Construction Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2022 (division B of Public Law 117–81; 135 Stat. 2161), the authorizations set forth in the table in subsection (b), as provided in sections 2401 and 2402 of that Act (135 Stat. 2173, 2174), shall remain in effect until October 1, 2025, or the date of the enactment of an Act authorizing funds for military construction for fiscal year 2026, whichever is later.
               
               
                  (b)
                  Table
                  The table referred to in subsection (a) is as follows:
                  
                     
                     
                        Defense Agencies and ERCIP Projects: Extension of 2022 Project Authorizations
                     
                     
                        
                        
                        
                        
                        
                           
                              
                                 State/Country
                              
                              
                                 Installation or Location
                              
                              
                                 Project
                              
                              
                                 Original Authorized Amount
                              
                           
                        
                        
                           
                              Alabama
                              Fort Novosel (Formerly Fort Rucker)
                              10 MW RICE Generator Plant and Microgrid Controls
                              $24,000,000
                           
                           
                              California
                              Marine Corps Air Station Miramar
                              Additional LFG Power Meter Station
                              $4,054,000
                           
                           
                              
                              Naval Air Weapons Station China Lake-Ridgecrest
                              Solar Energy Storage System
                              $9,120,000
                           
                           
                              Georgia
                              Fort Moore (Formerly Fort Benning)
                              4.8 MW Generation and Microgrid
                              $17,593,000
                           
                           
                              
                              Fort Stewart
                              10 MW Generation Plant, with Microgrid Control
                              $22,000,000
                           
                           
                              Guam
                              Polaris Point Submarine Base
                              Inner Apra Harbor Resiliency Upgrades Ph 1.
                              $38,300,000
                           
                           
                              Michigan
                              Camp Grayling
                              650 KW Gas-Fired Micro-Turbine Generation System
                              $5,700,000
                           
                           
                              Mississippi
                              Camp Shelby
                              10 MW Generation Plant an Feeder level Microgrid System
                              $34,500,000
                           
                           
                              
                              Camp Shelby
                              Electrical Distribution Infrastructure Undergrounding Hardening Project
                              $11,155,000
                           
                           
                              New York
                              Fort Drum
                              Wellfield Field Expansion Project
                              $27,000,000
                           
                           
                              North Carolina
                              Fort Liberty (Formerly Fort Bragg)
                              10 MW Microgrid Utilizing Existing and New Generators
                              $19,464,000
                           
                           
                              
                              Fort Liberty (Formerly Fort Bragg)
                              Emergency Water System
                              $7,705,000
                           
                           
                              Ohio
                              Springfield-Beckley Municipal Airport
                              Base-Wide Microgrid With Natural Gas Generator, Photovoltaic and Battery Storage
                              $4,700,000
                           
                           
                              Puerto Rico
                              Aguadilla
                              Microgrid Control System, 460 KW PV, 275 KW Generator, 660 Kwh Bess
                              $10,120,000
                           
                           
                              
                              Fort Allen
                              Microgrid Control System, 690 KW PV, 275 KW Gen, 570 Kwh Bess
                              $12,190,000
                           
                           
                              Tennessee
                              Memphis International Airport
                              PV Arrays and Battery Storage
                              $4,780,000
                           
                           
                              United Kingdom
                              Royal Air Force Lakenheath
                              Hospital Replacement-Temporary Facilities
                              $19,283,000
                           
                           
                              Virginia
                              National Geospatial-Intelligence Agency Campus East
                              Electrical System Redundancy
                              $5,299,000
                           
                        
                     
                  
               
            
         
         
            XXV
            INTERNATIONAL PROGRAMS
            
               A
               North Atlantic Treaty Organization Security Investment Program
               
                  2501.
                  AUTHORIZED NATO CONSTRUCTION AND LAND ACQUISITION PROJECTS
                  The Secretary of Defense may make contributions for the North Atlantic Treaty Organization Security Investment Program as provided in section 2806 of title 10, United States Code, in an amount not to exceed the sum of the amount authorized to be appropriated for this purpose in section 2502 and the amount collected from the North Atlantic Treaty Organization as a result of construction previously financed by the United States.
               
               
                  2502.
                  AUTHORIZATION OF APPROPRIATIONS, NATO
                  Funds are hereby authorized to be appropriated for fiscal years beginning after September 30, 2024, for contributions by the Secretary of Defense under section 2806 of title 10, United States Code, for the share of the United States of the cost of projects for the North Atlantic Treaty Organization Security Investment Program authorized by section 2501 as specified in the funding table in section 4601.
               
            
            
               B
               Host Country In-Kind Contributions
               
                  2511.
                  REPUBLIC OF KOREA FUNDED CONSTRUCTION PROJECTS
                  Pursuant to agreement with the Republic of Korea for required in-kind contributions, the Secretary of Defense may accept military construction projects for the installations or locations in the Republic of Korea, and in the amounts, set forth in the following table:
                  
                     
                     
                        Republic of Korea Funded Construction Projects
                     
                     
                        
                        
                        
                        
                        
                           
                              
                                 Component
                              
                              
                                 Installation or Location
                              
                              
                                 Project
                              
                              
                                 Amount
                              
                           
                        
                        
                           
                              Army
                              Camp Carroll
                              MSC–K Paint Removal Booth
                              $9,400,000
                           
                           
                              Army
                              Camp Carroll
                              Tactical Equipment Maintenance Facility (TEMF)
                              $72,000,000
                           
                           
                              Army
                              Camp Walker
                              Elementary School
                              $46,000,000
                           
                           
                              Army
                              USAG Humphreys
                              Embedded Behavioral Health Clinic
                              $10,000,000
                           
                           
                              Army
                              USAG Humphreys
                              General Support Aviation Battalion Hangar
                              $180,000,000
                           
                           
                              Navy
                              Chinhae
                              Upgrade Main Access Control Point
                              $9,200,000
                           
                           
                              Air Force
                              Daegu AB
                              Upgrade Water Distribution System
                              $9,600,000
                           
                           
                              Air Force
                              Kunsan AB
                              Combat Small Arms Range
                              $31,000,000
                           
                           
                              Air Force
                              Kunsan AB
                              Fighter Squadron and Fighter Generation Squadron Operations Facility
                              $46,000,000
                           
                           
                              Air Force
                              Osan AB
                              Distributed Mission Operations (DMO) Flight Simulator
                              $15,000,000
                           
                        
                     
                  
               
               
                  2512.
                  REPUBLIC OF POLAND FUNDED CONSTRUCTION PROJECTS
                  Pursuant to agreement with the Republic of Poland for required in-kind contributions, the Secretary of Defense may accept military construction projects for the installations or locations in the Republic of Poland, and in the amounts, set forth in the following table:
                  
                     
                     
                        Republic of Poland Funded Construction Projects
                     
                     
                        
                        
                        
                        
                        
                           
                              
                                 Component
                              
                              
                                 Installation or Location
                              
                              
                                 Project
                              
                              
                                 Amount
                              
                           
                        
                        
                           
                              Air Force
                              Lask AB
                              AT/FP Upgrades for PPI Mission
                              $22,000,000
                           
                           
                              Air Force
                              Lask AB
                              Connecting Taxiways for RPA Mission
                              $18,000,000
                           
                           
                              Air Force
                              Lask AB
                              Ground Comms and Data Support Area for RPA Mission
                              $5,000,000
                           
                           
                              Air Force
                              Lask AB
                              Maintenance Hangar for PPI Mission
                              $69,000,000
                           
                           
                              Air Force
                              Lask AB
                              RPA Parking Apron
                              $18,000,000
                           
                           
                              Air Force
                              Wroclaw AB
                              AT/FP Upgrades for APOD Mission
                              $46,000,000
                           
                           
                              Air Force
                              Wroclaw AB
                              Comms Infrastructure for APOD Mission
                              $10,000,000
                           
                        
                     
                  
               
            
         
         
            XXVI
            GUARD AND RESERVE FORCES FACILITIES
            
               2601.
               AUTHORIZED ARMY NATIONAL GUARD CONSTRUCTION AND LAND ACQUISITION PROJECTS
               Using amounts appropriated pursuant to the authorization of appropriations in section 2606 and available for the National Guard and Reserve as specified in the funding table in section 4601, the Secretary of the Army may acquire real property and carry out military construction projects for the Army National Guard locations inside the United States, and in the amounts, set forth in the following table:
               
                  
                  
                     Army National Guard
                  
                  
                     
                     
                     
                     
                        
                           
                              State or Territory
                           
                           
                              Installation or Location
                           
                           
                              Amount
                           
                        
                     
                     
                        
                           Alaska
                           Fort Richardson
                           $67,000,000
                        
                        
                           Iowa
                            Sioux City Armory
                           $13,800,000
                        
                        
                           Louisiana
                            Lafayette Readiness Center
                           $33,000,000
                        
                        
                           Mississippi
                            Southaven Readiness Center
                           $33,000,000
                        
                        
                           Montana
                            Malta Readiness Center
                           $14,800,000
                        
                        
                           Nevada
                            Hawthorne Army Depot
                           $18,000,000
                        
                        
                           New Jersey
                            Vineland
                           $23,000,000
                        
                        
                           Oklahoma
                           Shawnee Readiness Center
                           $29,000,000
                        
                        
                           Puerto Rico
                           Gurabo Readiness Center
                           $63,000,000
                        
                        
                           Utah
                           Nephi Readiness Center
                           $20,000,000
                        
                        
                           Washington 
                            Camp Murray
                           $40,000,000
                        
                     
                  
               
            
            
               2602.
               AUTHORIZED ARMY RESERVE CONSTRUCTION AND LAND ACQUISITION PROJECTS
               Using amounts appropriated pursuant to the authorization of appropriations in section 2606 and available for the National Guard and Reserve as specified in the funding table in section 4601, the Secretary of the Army may acquire real property and carry out military construction projects for the Army Reserve locations inside the United States, and in the amounts, set forth in the following table:
               
                  
                  
                     Army Reserve: Inside the United States
                  
                  
                     
                     
                     
                     
                        
                           
                              State or Territory
                           
                           
                              Installation or Location
                           
                           
                              Amount
                           
                        
                     
                     
                        
                            California
                           Bell
                           $55,000,000 
                        
                        
                           
                           Camp Parks
                           $42,000,000
                        
                        
                           Georgia
                           Dobbins Air Reserve Base
                           $78,000,000 
                        
                        
                           Kentucky
                           Fort Knox
                           $138,000,000
                        
                        
                           Massachusetts
                           Devens Reserve Forces Training Area
                           $39,000,000
                        
                        
                           New Jersey
                           Joint Base McGuire-Dix-Lakehurst
                           $16,000,000
                        
                        
                           Pennsylvania
                            Wilkes-Barre
                           $22,000,000
                        
                        
                           Puerto Rico
                           Fort Buchanan
                           $39,000,000
                        
                        
                           Virginia
                           Richmond
                           $23,000,000
                        
                     
                  
               
            
            
               2603.
               AUTHORIZED NAVY RESERVE AND MARINE CORPS RESERVE CONSTRUCTION AND LAND ACQUISITION PROJECTS
               Using amounts appropriated pursuant to the authorization of appropriations in section 2606 and available for the National Guard and Reserve as specified in the funding table in section 4601, the Secretary of the Navy may acquire real property and carry out military construction projects for the Navy Reserve and Marine Corps Reserve location inside the United States, and in the amount, set forth in the following table:
               
                  
                  
                     Navy Reserve and Marine Corps Reserve
                  
                  
                     
                     
                     
                     
                        
                           
                              State
                           
                           
                              Installation or Location
                           
                           
                              Amount
                           
                        
                     
                     
                        
                           Texas
                           Naval Air Station Joint Reserve Base Fort Worth
                           $75,000,000
                        
                        
                            Washington
                           Joint Base Lewis-McChord
                           $26,610,000 
                        
                     
                  
               
            
            
               2604.
               AUTHORIZED AIR NATIONAL GUARD CONSTRUCTION AND LAND ACQUISITION PROJECTS
               Using amounts appropriated pursuant to the authorization of appropriations in section 2606 and available for the National Guard and Reserve as specified in the funding table in section 4601, the Secretary of the Air Force may acquire real property and carry out military construction projects for the Air National Guard locations inside the United States, and in the amounts, set forth in the following table:
               
                  
                  
                     Air National Guard
                  
                  
                     
                     
                     
                     
                        
                           
                              State
                           
                           
                              Installation or Location
                           
                           
                              Amount
                           
                        
                     
                     
                        
                            Alaska
                           Joint Base Elmendorf-Richardson
                           $19,300,000 
                        
                        
                           California
                           Moffett Air Field
                           $12,600,000 
                        
                        
                           Florida
                           Jacksonville International Airport
                           $26,200,000
                        
                        
                            Hawaii
                           Hickam Air Force Base
                           $36,600,000
                        
                        
                           New Jersey
                           Atlantic City International Airport
                           $18,000,000
                        
                        
                           New York
                           Francis S. Gabreski Airport
                           $14,000,000
                        
                        
                           Texas
                           Fort Worth
                           $13,100,000
                        
                     
                  
               
            
            
               2605.
               AUTHORIZED AIR FORCE RESERVE CONSTRUCTION AND LAND ACQUISITION PROJECTS
               Using amounts appropriated pursuant to the authorization of appropriations in section 2606 and available for the National Guard and Reserve as specified in the funding table in section 4601, the Secretary of the Air Force may acquire real property and carry out military construction projects for the Air Force Reserve locations inside the United States, and in the amounts, set forth in the following table:
               
                  
                  
                     Air Force Reserve
                  
                  
                     
                     
                     
                     
                        
                           
                              State
                           
                           
                              Location
                           
                           
                              Amount
                           
                        
                     
                     
                        
                           Delaware
                           Dover Air Force Base
                           $42,000,000
                        
                        
                            Georgia
                           Dobbins Air Reserve Base
                           $22,000,000 
                        
                        
                           Indiana
                           Grissom Air Reserve Base
                           $21,000,000 
                        
                        
                           Ohio
                           Youngstown Air Reserve Station
                           $25,000,000
                        
                     
                  
               
            
            
               2606.
               AUTHORIZATION OF APPROPRIATIONS, NATIONAL GUARD AND RESERVE
               Funds are hereby authorized to be appropriated for fiscal years beginning after September 30, 2024, for the costs of acquisition, architectural and engineering services, and construction of facilities for the Guard and Reserve Forces, and for contributions therefor, under chapter 1803 of title 10, United States Code (including the cost of acquisition of land for those facilities), as specified in the funding table in section 4601.
            
            
               2607.
               EXTENSION OF AUTHORITY TO CARRY OUT CERTAIN FISCAL YEAR 2020 PROJECTS
               
                  (a)
                  Extension
                  Notwithstanding section 2002 of the Military Construction Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2020 (division B of Public Law 116–92; 133 Stat. 1862), the authorizations set forth in the table in subsection (b), as provided in section 2601 of that Act (133 Stat. 1875), shall remain in effect until October 1, 2025, or the date of the enactment of an Act authorizing funds for military construction for fiscal year 2026, whichever is later.
               
               
                  (b)
                  Table
                  The table referred to in subsection (a) is as follows:
                  
                     
                     
                        National Guard and Reserve: Extension of 2020 Project Authorizations
                     
                     
                        
                        
                        
                        
                        
                           
                              
                                 State/Country
                              
                              
                                 Installation or Location
                              
                              
                                 Project
                              
                              
                                 Original Authorized Amount
                              
                           
                        
                        
                           
                              California
                              Camp Roberts
                              Automated Multipurpose Machine Gun (MPMG) Range
                              $12,000,000
                           
                           
                              Pennsylvania
                              Moon Township
                              Combined Support Maintenance Shop
                              $23,000,000
                           
                        
                     
                  
               
            
            
               2608.
               EXTENSION OF AUTHORITY TO CARRY OUT CERTAIN FISCAL YEAR 2021 PROJECTS
               
                  (a)
                  Extension
                  Notwithstanding section 2002 of the Military Construction Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2021 (Division B of Public Law 116–283; 134 Stat. 4294), the authorizations set forth in the table in subsection (b), as provided in sections 2601 and 2602 of that Act (134 Stat. 4312, 4313) and extended by section 2609 of the Military Construction Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2024 (division B of Public Law 118–31; 137 Stat. 738), shall remain in effect until October 1, 2025, or the date of the enactment of an Act authorizing funds for military construction for fiscal year 2026, whichever is later.
               
               
                  (b)
                  Table
                  The table referred to in subsection (a) is as follows:
                  
                     
                     
                        National Guard and Reserve: Extension of 2021 Project Authorizations
                     
                     
                        
                        
                        
                        
                        
                           
                              
                                 State/Country
                              
                              
                                 Installation or Location
                              
                              
                                 Project
                              
                              
                                 Original Authorized Amount
                              
                           
                        
                        
                           
                              Arkansas
                              Fort Chaffee
                              National Guard Readiness Center
                              $15,000,000
                           
                           
                              California
                              Bakersfield
                              National Guard Vehicle Maintenance Shop
                              $9,300,000
                           
                           
                              Massachusetts
                              Devens Reserve Forces Training Area
                              Automated Multipurpose Machine Gun Range
                              $8,700,000
                           
                           
                              North Carolina
                              Asheville
                              Army Reserve Center
                              $24,000,000
                           
                           
                              Puerto Rico
                              Fort Allen
                              National Guard Readiness Center
                              $37,000,000
                           
                           
                              South Carolina
                              Joint Base Charleston
                              National Guard Readiness Center
                              $15,000,000
                           
                           
                              Texas
                              Fort Worth
                              Aircraft Maintenance Hangar Addition/Alt
                              $6,000,000
                           
                           
                              Virgin Islands
                              St. Croix
                              Army Aviation Support Facility (AASF)
                              $28,000,000
                           
                           
                              
                              St. Croix
                              CST Ready Building
                              $11,400,000
                           
                        
                     
                  
               
            
            
               2609.
               MODIFICATION OF AUTHORITY TO CARRY OUT FISCAL YEAR 2022 PROJECT FOR NATIONAL GUARD READINESS CENTER
               In the case of the authorization contained in the table in section 2601 of the Military Construction Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2022 (division B of Public Law 117–81; 135 Stat. 2178) for Bennington National Guard Armory, Vermont, for construction of a National Guard Readiness Center as specified in the funding table in section 4601 of such Act, the Secretary of the Army may construct the National Guard Readiness Center in Lyndon, Vermont.
            
            
               2610.
               EXTENSION OF AUTHORITY TO CARRY OUT CERTAIN FISCAL YEAR 2022 PROJECTS
               
                  (a)
                  Extension
                  Notwithstanding section 2002 of the Military Construction Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2022 (Division B of Public Law 117–81; 135 Stat. 2161), the authorizations set forth in the table in subsection (b), as provided in sections 2601, 2602, 2604 and 2605 of that Act (135 Stat. 2178, 2179, 2180) and amended by section 2607(1) of the Military Construction Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2023 (division B of Public Law 117–263; 136 Stat. 2988), shall remain in effect until October 1, 2026, or the date of the enactment of an Act authorizing funds for military construction for fiscal year 2027, whichever is later.
               
               
                  (b)
                  Table
                  The table referred to in subsection (a) is as follows:
                  
                     
                     
                        National Guard and Reserve: Extension of 2022 Project Authorizations
                     
                     
                        
                        
                        
                        
                        
                           
                              
                                 State
                              
                              
                                 Installation or Location
                              
                              
                                 Project
                              
                              
                                 Original Authorized Amount
                              
                           
                        
                        
                           
                              Alabama
                              Huntsville Readiness Center
                              National Guard Readiness Center
                              $17,000,000
                           
                           
                              Georgia
                              Fort Moore (Formerly Fort Benning)
                              Post-Initial Mil. Training Unaccompanied Housing
                              $13,200,000
                           
                           
                              Indiana
                              Grissom Air Reserve Base
                              Logistics Readiness Complex
                              $29,000,000
                           
                           
                              Massachusetts
                              Barnes Air National Guard Base
                              Combined Engine/ASE/NDI Shop
                              $12,200,000
                           
                           
                              Mississippi
                              Jackson International Airport
                              Fire Crash and Rescue Station
                              $9,300,000
                           
                           
                              New York
                              Francis S. Gabreski Airport
                              Base Civil Engineer Complex
                              $14,800,000
                           
                           
                              Ohio
                              Wright-Patterson Air Force Base
                              AR Center Training Building/ UHS
                              $19,000,000
                           
                           
                              Vermont
                              Bennington National Guard Armory
                              National Guard Readiness Center
                              $16,900,000
                           
                           
                              Wisconsin
                              Fort McCoy
                              Transient Training Officer Barracks
                              $29,200,000
                           
                           
                              Wyoming
                              Cheyenne Municipal Airport
                              Combined Vehicle Maintenance and ASE Complex
                              $13,400,000
                           
                        
                     
                  
               
            
         
         
            XXVII
            BASE REALIGNMENT AND CLOSURE ACTIVITIES
            
               2701.
               AUTHORIZATION OF APPROPRIATIONS FOR BASE REALIGNMENT AND CLOSURE ACTIVITIES FUNDED THROUGH DEPARTMENT OF DEFENSE BASE CLOSURE ACCOUNT
               Funds are hereby authorized to be appropriated for fiscal years beginning after September 30, 2024, for base realignment and closure activities, including real property acquisition and military construction projects, as authorized by the Defense Base Closure and Realignment Act of 1990 (part A of title XXIX of Public Law 101–510; 10 U.S.C. 2687 note) and funded through the Department of Defense Base Closure Account established by section 2906 of such Act (as amended by section 2711 of the Military Construction Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2013 (division B of Public Law 112–239; 126 Stat. 2140), as specified in the funding table in section 4601.
            
         
         
            XXVIII
            MILITARY CONSTRUCTION GENERAL PROVISIONS
            
               A
               Military Construction Programs
               
                  2801.
                  DEVELOPMENT AND OPERATION OF THE NAVAL INNOVATION CENTER AT THE NAVAL POSTGRADUATE SCHOOL
                  
                     Chapter 855 of title 10, United States Code, is amended by adding at the end the following new section:
                  
                     
                        8551.
                        DEVELOPMENT AND OPERATION OF THE NAVAL INNOVATION CENTER AT THE NAVAL POSTGRADUATE SCHOOL
                        
                           (a)
                           Authority to support the Naval Innovation Center
                           
                              (1)
                              The Secretary of the Navy may enter into a contract or other agreement with one or more eligible nonprofit organizations for the design, construction, and maintenance of a multipurpose facility—
                              
                                 (A)
                                 to be known as the Naval Innovation Center (in this section referred to as the NIC); and
                              
                              
                                 (B)
                                 to be located at the United States Naval Postgraduate School.
                              
                           
                           
                              (2)
                              The NIC shall be used—
                              
                                 (A)
                                 to convene interested persons to develop and accelerate the adoption of new and innovative technologies and practices for the benefit of the Department of Defense; and
                              
                              
                                 (B)
                                 to support such education, training, research, and associated activities, as determined by the Secretary, in support of the Naval Postgraduate School and the Department of Defense.
                              
                           
                        
                        
                           (b)
                           Funds
                           Under the contract or other agreement described in paragraph (1), the Secretary may—
                           
                              (1)
                              accept funds from a partner organization for any phase of development of the NIC; and
                           
                           
                              (2)
                              accept funds, personal property, or services from a covered entity that is not a partner organization for maintenance of the NIC.
                           
                        
                        
                           (c)
                           Authority to Accept Gifts
                           
                              (1)
                              The Secretary of the Navy may accept, hold, administer, and spend any gift, device, or bequest of real property, personal property, services, or money on the condition that the gift, device, or bequest be used for the benefit, or in connection with, the establishment, operation, or maintenance of the NIC. Section 2601 (other than subsections (b), (c), and (e)) of this title shall apply to gifts accepted under this subsection.
                           
                           
                              (2)
                              The Secretary may display at the NIC recognition for an individual or entity that contributes money to a partner organization or for a corporate partner that contributes money directly to the Navy for the benefit of the NIC, whether or not the contribution is subject to the condition that the recognition be provided. The Secretary shall prescribe regulations governing the circumstances under which contributor recognition may be provided, appropriate forms of recognition, and suitable display standards.
                           
                           
                              (3)
                              The Secretary may authorize the sale of donated property received under paragraph (1). A sale under this paragraph need not be conducted in accordance with disposal requirements that would otherwise apply, so long as the sale is conducted at arms-length and includes an auditable transaction record.
                           
                           
                              (4)
                              Any money received under paragraph (1) and any proceeds from the sale of property under paragraph (3) shall be deposited into a fund established in the Treasury to support the NIC.
                           
                        
                        
                           (d)
                           Additional Terms and Conditions
                           The Secretary of the Navy may require such additional terms and conditions in connection with a contract or other agreement described in subsection (a) as the Secretary considers appropriate to protect the interests of the United States.
                        
                        
                           (e)
                           Definitions
                           In this section:
                           
                              (1)
                              The term eligible nonprofit organization means an organization that —
                              
                                 (A)
                                 is described in section 501(c)(3) of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986 and that is exempt from taxation under section 501(a) of such Code; and
                              
                              
                                 (B)
                                 has as its primary purpose the support and operation of the Naval Postgraduate School.
                              
                           
                           
                              (2)
                              The term partner organization means an eligible nonprofit organization with which the Secretary of the Navy enters into a contract or other agreement under subsection (a).
                           
                           
                              (3)
                              The term covered entity means—
                              
                                 (A)
                                 an entity incorporated or operating under the laws of any State; or
                              
                              
                                 (B)
                                 a nonprofit organization.
                              
                           
                        
                     
                     .
                  
               
               
                  2802.
                  ASSISTANCE FOR PUBLIC INFRASTRUCTURE PROJECTS AND SERVICES
                  Section 2391(b)(5)(B) of title 10, United States Code, is amended—
                  
                     (1)
                     in the matter preceding clause (i), by inserting or local government after a State;
                  
                  
                     (2)
                     in clause (ii), by striking and at the end;
                  
                  
                     (3)
                     in clause (iii), by striking the period at the end and inserting ; and; and
                  
                  
                     (4)
                     by adding at the end the following new clause: 
                     
                        
                           (iv)
                           to support public infrastructure projects and services that enhance the capabilities and resilience of the defense industrial base and the defense industrial base workers, if the Secretary determines such support will improve operations of the Department of Defense.
                        
                        .
                     
                  
               
               
                  2803.
                  MILITARY BASE REUSE STUDIES AND COMMUNITY PLANNING ASSISTANCE
                  Section 2391 of title 10, United States Code, is amended—
                  
                     (1)
                     in subsection (b)(5)(D) by adding at the end the following: The Secretary of Defense shall coordinate with the Commandant of the Coast Guard before providing assistance under this paragraph for Coast Guard installations and facilities that, for purposes of this paragraph, are military installations.; and
                  
                  
                     (2)
                     in subsection (e)(1) by adding at the end the following: For purposes of paragraphs (1)(E) and (5)(D) of subsection (b), the term military installation includes Coast Guard installations and facilities.
                  
               
               
                  2804.
                  EXPANSION OF ELIGIBLE GRANT RECIPIENTS UNDER THE DEFENSE COMMUNITY INFRASTRUCTURE PROGRAM
                  
                     (a)
                     In general
                     Subsection (d) of section 2391 of title 10, United States Code, is amended—
                     
                        (1)
                        in paragraph (1)(A), by striking State and local governments and inserting State governments, local governments, and not-for-profit, member-owned utility services; and
                     
                     
                        (2)
                        in paragraph (2)—
                        
                           (A)
                           in subparagraph (A), by striking the State or local government agree and inserting the recipient of such assistance agrees; and
                        
                        
                           (B)
                           in subparagraph (B)—
                           
                              (i)
                              in the matter preceding clause (i), by striking in a rural area or the Secretary of Defense and inserting in a rural area or a covered insular area, or if the Secretary of Defense;
                           
                           
                              (ii)
                              in clause (i), by striking a State or local government and inserting the recipient of assistance under this subsection; and
                           
                           
                              (iii)
                              in clause (ii), by striking a State or local government contribution and inserting the contribution of such recipient.
                           
                        
                     
                  
                  
                     (b)
                     Covered insular area defined
                     Subsection (e) of such section is amended by adding at the end the following new paragraph:
                     
                        
                           (7)
                           The term covered insular area means the Commonwealth of Puerto Rico, American Samoa, Guam, the Commonwealth of the Northern Mariana Islands, and the Virgin Islands.
                        
                        .
                     
                  
                  
                     (c)
                     Technical amendment
                     Section 2391(d)(1)(B)(iii) of such title is amended by striking section 101(e)(8) of this title and inserting section 101 of this title.
                  
               
               
                  2805.
                  AMENDMENTS TO DEFENSE LABORATORY MODERNIZATION PROGRAM
                  Section 2805(g) of title 10, United States Code, is amended—
                  
                     (1)
                     in paragraph (5), by striking $150,000,000 and inserting $300,000,000; and
                  
                  
                     (2)
                     in paragraph (6)(B), by striking $1,000,0000 and inserting $4,000,0000. 
                  
               
               
                  2806.
                  ANNUAL FIVE-YEAR PLANS ON IMPROVEMENT OF DEPARTMENT OF DEFENSE INNOVATION INFRASTRUCTURE
                  Section 2810 of title 10, United States Code, is amended by adding at the end the following new subsection:
                  
                     
                        (e)
                        Annual five-year plans on improvement of innovation infrastructure
                        
                           (1)
                           Submission
                           Along with the budget for each fiscal year submitted by the President pursuant to section 1105(a) of title 31, each Secretary of a military department and the Secretary of Defense shall submit to the congressional defense committees a plan that describes the objectives of that Secretary to improve innovation infrastructure during the five fiscal years following the fiscal year for which such budget is submitted.
                        
                        
                           (2)
                           Elements
                           Each plan submitted by a Secretary of a military department under paragraph (1) shall include the following:
                           
                              (A)
                              With respect to the five-year period covered by the plan, an identification of the major lines of effort, milestones, and investment goals of the Secretary over such period relating to the improvement of innovation infrastructure and a description of how such goals support such goals, including the use of—
                              
                                 (i)
                                 military construction, facilities restoration and modernization funds;
                              
                              
                                 (ii)
                                 the defense lab modernization program under section 2805(d) of this title; and
                              
                              
                                 (iii)
                                 military construction projects for innovation, research, development, test, and evaluation under this section.
                              
                           
                           
                              (B)
                              The estimated costs of necessary innovation infrastructure improvements and a description of how such costs would be addressed by the Department of Defense budget request submitted during the same year as the plan and the applicable future-years defense program.
                           
                           
                              (C)
                              Information regarding the plan of the Secretary to initiate such environmental and engineering studies as may be necessary to carry out planned innovation infrastructure improvements.
                           
                           
                              (D)
                              Detailed information regarding how innovation infrastructure improvement projects will be paced and sequenced to ensure continuous operations.
                           
                        
                        
                           (3)
                           Incorporation of results-oriented management practices
                           Each plan under subsection (a) shall incorporate the leading results-oriented management practices identified in the report of the Comptroller General of the United States titled Actions Needed to Improve Poor Conditions of Facilities and Equipment that Affect Maintenance Timeliness and Efficiency (GAO–19–242), or any successor report, including—
                           
                              (A)
                              analytically based goals;
                           
                           
                              (B)
                              results-oriented metrics;
                           
                           
                              (C)
                              the identification of required resources, risks, and stakeholders; and
                           
                           
                              (D)
                              regular reporting on progress to decision makers.
                           
                        
                        
                           (4)
                           Innovative infrastructure defined
                           In this subsection, the term innovation infrastructure includes laboratories, test and evaluation ranges, and any other infrastructure whose primary purpose is research, development, test, and evaluation. 
                        
                     
                     .
                  
               
               
                  2807.
                  EXPANSION OF STORMWATER MANAGEMENT PROJECTS FOR INSTALLATION AND DEFENSE ACCESS ROAD RESILIENCE; MODIFICATION OF PROJECT PRIORITIES
                  Section 2815a of title 10, United States Code, is amended— 
                  
                     (1)
                     in subsection (a)—
                     
                        (A)
                        in paragraph (1), by striking and at the end;
                     
                     
                        (B)
                        in paragraph (2), by striking the period and inserting ; and; and
                     
                     
                        (C)
                        by adding at the end the following:
                        
                           
                              (3)
                              providing water storage and filtration, flood mitigation, or otherwise supporting water resilience at military installations.
                           
                           ;
                        
                     
                  
                  
                     (2)
                     in subsection (b)—
                     
                        (A)
                        by redesignating paragraphs (5), (6), and (7) as paragraphs (6), (7), and (8), respectively; and
                     
                     
                        (B)
                        by inserting after paragraph (4) the following:
                        
                           
                              (5)
                              A military installation resilience project under section 2684a of this title.
                           
                           ;
                        
                     
                  
                  
                     (3)
                     by striking subsection (c) and inserting the following:
                     
                        
                           (c)
                           Project priorities
                           In selecting stormwater management projects to be carried out under this section, the Secretary concerned shall give a priority to project proposals for—
                           
                              (1)
                              minimizing the runoff of untreated stormwater into freshwater systems or tidal systems;
                           
                           
                              (2)
                              protecting military installations and defense access roads from stormwater runoff and water levels resulting from extreme weather conditions; and
                           
                           
                              (3)
                              supporting water resilience at military installations.
                           
                        
                        ;
                     
                  
                  
                     (4)
                     in subsection (d)—
                     
                        (A)
                        by redesignating paragraphs (2) and (3) as paragraphs (3) and (4), respectively;
                     
                     
                        (B)
                        by inserting , retention, and filtration after water-slowing; and 
                     
                     
                        (C)
                        by inserting after paragraph (1) the following:
                        
                           
                              (2)
                              The capture or storage of stormwater for use in supporting water resilience at a military installation.
                           
                           ; and
                        
                     
                  
                  
                     (5)
                     in subsection (e)—
                     
                        (A)
                        by striking In the case of and inserting (1) In the case of; 
                     
                     
                        (B)
                        by striking section 2391(d), and inserting section 2391, 2684,; and
                     
                     
                        (C)
                        by adding at the end the following new paragraph:
                        
                           
                              (2)
                              The Assistant Secretary of Defense for Energy, Installations, and Environment shall designate an official to be responsible for coordinating regional stormwater management among the military departments.
                           
                           .
                        
                     
                  
               
               
                  2808.
                  EXPANSION OF AUTHORIZED THRESHOLD FOR CERTAIN MINOR MILITARY CONSTRUCTION PROJECTS WITHIN AREA OF RESPONSIBILITY OF UNITED STATES INDO-PACIFIC COMMAND
                  Subsection (a) of section 2810 of the National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2024 (Public Law 118–31) is amended by striking $15,000,000 and inserting $20,000,000. 
               
               
                  2809.
                  NOTIFICATION TO MEMBERS OF CONGRESS FOR AWARDS OF CONTRACTS FOR MILITARY CONSTRUCTION PROJECTS
                  
                     (a)
                     Notification required
                     Not later than 30 days after the date of award of a contract for a military construction project, the Secretary of the military department that has jurisdiction over such project shall notify any applicable Member of Congress representing the State—
                     
                        (1)
                         in which such contract will be performed; or
                     
                     
                        (2)
                        for which the contractor awarded such contract is a constituent of such Member.
                     
                  
                  
                     (b)
                     Elements
                     A notification under subsection (a) shall include the following:
                     
                        (1)
                        The proposed value of the contract.
                     
                     
                        (2)
                        The contractor awarded the contract.
                     
                     
                        (3)
                        A brief description of the project that is the subject of the contract, including the location in which the contract will be performed. 
                     
                  
               
               
                  2810.
                  ASSESSMENT OF WORKFORCE NEEDS IN THE FREELY ASSOCIATED STATES TO SUPPORT FUTURE MILITARY CONSTRUCTION
                  Not later than 180 days after the date of the enactment of this Act, the Office of the Assistant Secretary of Defense for Energy, Installations, and Environment shall conduct a study and submit a report to the congressional defense committees—
                  
                     (1)
                     summarizing planned military major and minor construction in the Freely Associated States (FAS) over the next 5 fiscal years;
                  
                  
                     (2)
                     assessing the ability of the local workforce in the FAS to support future military construction; and
                  
                  
                     (3)
                     detailing options for the Department of Defense to cooperate with the Department of Labor, the Department of the Interior, and the FAS to develop plans to help address any construction workforce shortages.
                  
               
            
            
               B
               Military Housing Reforms
               
                  2821.
                  EXTENSION OF APPLICABILITY FOR WAIVERS OF COVERED PRIVACY AND CONFIGURATION STANDARDS FOR COVERED MILITARY UNACCOMPANIED HOUSING
                  Paragraph (4) of section 2856a(a) of title 10, United States Code, is amended by striking 9 months and inserting 18 months.
               
               
                  2822.
                  ADDITIONAL REQUIREMENTS FOR DATABASE OF COMPLAINTS MADE REGARDING HOUSING UNITS OF DEPARTMENT OF DEFENSE
                  Section 2894a of title 10, United States Code, is amended—
                  
                     (1)
                     in subsection (a) by striking regarding housing units and inserting by a tenant regarding covered dwelling units;
                  
                  
                     (2)
                     in subsections (c) and (d) by striking housing unit each place it appears and inserting covered dwelling unit; and
                  
                  
                     (3)
                     by inserting after subsection (e) the following new subsections:
                     
                        
                           (f)
                           Annual report
                           
                              (1)
                              In general
                              The Deputy Assistant Secretary of Defense for Housing shall submit to the Committees on Armed Services of the House of Representatives and the Senate, and make available to each Secretary of a military department, an annual report that includes, during the year covered by such report—
                              
                                 (A)
                                 a summary of the data collected using the database established under subsection (a);
                              
                              
                                 (B)
                                 an aggregation of the complaints categorized by type, in accordance with paragraph (2), and military installation, if applicable; and
                              
                              
                                 (C)
                                 the actions taken to remedy complaints received during the period covered by such report.
                              
                           
                           
                              (2)
                              Type of complaints
                              In categorizing complaints by type pursuant to paragraph (1)(B), the Secretary shall aggregate complaints based on the following categories:
                              
                                 (A)
                                 Physiological hazards, including dampness and mold growth, lead-based paint, asbestos and manmade fibers, radiation, biocides, carbon monoxide, and volatile organic compounds.
                              
                              
                                 (B)
                                 Psychological hazards, including ease of access by unlawful intruders, faulty locks or alarms, and lighting issues.
                              
                              
                                 (C)
                                 Safety hazards.
                              
                              
                                 (D)
                                 Maintenance timeliness.
                              
                              
                                 (E)
                                 Maintenance quality.
                              
                           
                        
                        
                           (g)
                           Definitions
                           In this section:
                           
                              (1)
                              The term covered armed force means the Army, Navy, Marine Corps, Air Force, or Space Force.
                           
                           
                              (2)
                              The term covered dwelling unit means a unit of accompanied family housing, unaccompanied housing, or barracks—
                              
                                 (A)
                                 in which a member of a covered armed force resides; and
                              
                              
                                 (B)
                                 that such member does not own.
                              
                           
                           
                              (3)
                              The term tenant means any of the following:
                              
                                 (A)
                                 A member of a covered armed force who resides in a covered dwelling unit.
                              
                              
                                 (B)
                                 A dependent of a member described in subparagraph (A) who resides in a covered dwelling unit.
                              
                           
                        
                        .
                     
                  
               
               
                  2823.
                  MODIFICATION TO DEFINITION OF PRIVATIZED MILITARY HOUSING
                  Section 3001(a)(2) of the National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2020 (Public Law 116–92; 10 U.S.C. 2821 note) is amended by striking military housing provided and inserting military housing that is not Government-owned that is provided.
               
               
                  2824.
                  ANALYSIS OF HOUSING AVAILABILITY FOR CRITICAL CIVILIAN AND CONTRACTOR PERSONNEL NEAR RURAL MILITARY INSTALLATIONS
                  Not later than one year after the date of the enactment of this Act, the Secretary of Defense shall revise the Department of Defense Manual 4165.63–M titled DoD Housing Management issued October 28, 2010, to require an analysis of the availability of suitable housing located in close proximity to a military installation (as defined in section 2801 of title 10, United States Code) in a rural location for civilian personnel and defense contractors that provide critical functions for the operations of such military installation, as determined by the Secretary.
               
               
                  2825.
                  LIMITATION ON AVAILABILITY OF FUNDS FOR CERTAIN DEPARTMENT OF DEFENSE TRAVEL UNTIL ESTABLISHMENT OF CERTAIN COMPLAINT DATABASE
                  Of the funds authorized to be appropriated by this Act or otherwise made available for fiscal year 2025, and available for the Office of the Secretary of Defense for the travel of persons, not more than 90 percent may be obligated or expended until the date on which the Secretary of Defense implements the public complaint database for military housing under the jurisdiction of such Secretary required by section 2894a of title 10, United States Code.
               
            
            
               C
               Real Property and Facilities Administration
               
                  2831.
                  PROCESS FOR STRATEGIC BASING ACTIONS FOR THE DEPARTMENT OF THE AIR FORCE
                  
                     Chapter 141 of title 10, United States Code, is amended by inserting after section 2391 the following new section: 
                  
                     
                        2392.
                        PROCESS FOR STRATEGIC BASING ACTIONS FOR THE DEPARTMENT OF THE AIR FORCE
                        
                           (a)
                           Basing action requests
                           
                              (1)
                              An action proponent desiring the Secretary of the Air Force to undertake a basing action shall submit to the Assistant Secretary of the Air Force for Energy, Installations, and Environment a basing action request.
                           
                           
                              (2)
                              The Assistant Secretary shall coordinate with the Deputy Chief of Staff for Strategy and Requirements of the Air Force on the assessment and resolution of a basing action request.
                           
                        
                        
                           (b)
                           Assessment of basing action request
                           
                              (1)
                              The Assistant Secretary shall assess a request submitted under subsection (a) to determine whether the basing action described in such request is a strategic basing action.
                           
                           
                              (2)
                              Not later than 14 days after the Assistant Secretary makes a determination with respect to such a basing action, the Assistant Secretary shall submit to the Committees on Armed Services of the House of Representatives and the Senate a notification of such determination.
                           
                           
                              (3)
                              
                                 (A)
                                 Upon determining that a basing action described in a request submitted under subsection (a) is a strategic basing action, the Secretary of the Air Force may not carry out such strategic basing action pursuant to the process established for a programmatic basing decision (as described in subsection (h)) until the Secretary notifies the congressional defense committees of the determination to use a programmatic basing decision process for such basing action request.
                              
                              
                                 (B)
                                 Upon designation of a Strategic Basing Lead for a basing action request submitted under subsection (a), the Secretary of the Air Force may not implement such request pursuant to the processes established for a programmatic basing decision (as described in subsection (h)).
                              
                           
                        
                        
                           (c)
                           Criteria for strategic basing action
                           
                              (1)
                              
                                 (A)
                                 Upon determining that a basing action described in a request submitted under subsection (a) is a strategic basing action, the Assistant Secretary shall designate a Strategic Basing Lead to, for each such request—
                                 
                                    (i)
                                    develop a list of military installations under the jurisdiction of the Secretary of the Air Force at which the strategic basic action may be implemented;
                                 
                                 
                                    (ii)
                                    develop criteria to determine the suitability of each military installation on such list for the strategic basing action, including criteria relating to mission requirements, capacity of each military installation to support the strategic basing action, environmental considerations, and cost;
                                 
                                 
                                    (iii)
                                    assign a weight to each criteria developed under clause (ii); and
                                 
                                 
                                    (iv)
                                    if required, request modifications of the criteria or weight of criteria from the Strategic Basing Panel.
                                 
                              
                              
                                 (B)
                                 The Strategic Basing Lead shall submit to the Strategic Basing Panel a report containing the information described in subparagraph (A).
                              
                           
                           
                              (2)
                              
                                 (A)
                                 Not later than 30 days after receipt of the report required under paragraph (1), the Strategic Basing Panel shall review such report and make a determination whether to approve or reject the list of military installations, the criteria developed, and the weights assigned such criteria under such paragraph. 
                              
                              
                                 (B)
                                 If the Strategic Basing Panel rejects such list, criteria, or weights, the Assistant Secretary shall require the Strategic Basing Lead to redevelop such list, redevelop such criteria, or reassign such weights (as appropriate) and submit the modified criteria or weights to the Strategic Basing Panel for a subsequent review to be conducted in accordance with subparagraph (A). 
                              
                              
                                 (C)
                                 There shall be no limitation on the number of times the Assistant Secretary may require the Strategic Basing Lead to redevelop such list, redevelop such criteria, or reassign such weights (as appropriate).
                              
                              
                                 (D)
                                 The Strategic Basing Panel shall submit to the Strategic Basing Group a report that includes the approved list of military installations, criteria developed, and weights assigned such criteria.
                              
                           
                           
                              (3)
                              
                                 (A)
                                 The Strategic Basing Group shall review the report submitted under paragraph (2)(D) and submit to the Assistant Secretary a determination of whether to approve or reject such report.
                              
                              
                                 (B)
                                 If the Strategic Basing Group rejects the inclusion of a military installation, the criteria developed, or the weights assigned such criteria in the report, the Assistant Secretary shall require the Strategic Basing Panel to submit to the Strategic Basing Group a modified report for a subsequent review to be conducted in accordance with subparagraph (A).
                              
                              
                                 (C)
                                 There shall be no limitation on the number of times the Assistant Secretary may require the Strategic Basing Panel to submit to the Strategic Basing Group a modified report.
                              
                              
                                 (D)
                                 The Strategic Basing Group shall submit to the Assistant Secretary a report that includes the approved list of military installations, criteria developed, and weights assigned such criteria.
                              
                           
                           
                              (4)
                              Not later than 14 days after the date of receipt of the report under paragraph (3)(D), the Assistant Secretary shall provide to the Committees on Armed Services of the House of Representatives and the Senate a briefing on—
                              
                                 (A)
                                 the work of the Strategic Basing Lead;
                              
                              
                                 (B)
                                 the list of military installations under the jurisdiction of the Secretary of the Air Force at which the strategic basic action may be implemented; and
                              
                              
                                 (C)
                                 the criteria developed under paragraph (1)(A) and the weight assigned to such criteria, as approved by the Strategic Basing Group.
                              
                           
                           
                              (5)
                              
                                 (A)
                                 If the Strategic Basing Lead modifies the list of military installations, the criteria developed, or the weight assigned to such criteria under paragraph (1), or requests a modification pursuant to paragraph (1)(A)(iv), after the date of the briefing required under paragraph (4), the Strategic Basing Lead shall submit to the Strategic Basing Panel a report describing such modifications.
                              
                              
                                 (B)
                                 The Assistant Secretary shall—
                                 
                                    (i)
                                    notify the Committees on Armed Services of the House of Representatives and the Senate of any modifications made by the Strategic Basing Lead as described in subparagraph (A);
                                 
                                 
                                    (ii)
                                    require the Strategic Basing Lead to submit such modifications to the Strategic Basing Panel for subsequent review to be conducted in accordance with paragraph (2);
                                 
                                 
                                    (iii)
                                    require the Strategic Basing Panel to submit approved modifications to the Strategic Basing Group for subsequent review to be conducted in accordance with paragraph (3); and
                                 
                                 
                                    (iv)
                                    provide to the Committees on Armed Services of the House of Representatives and the Senate a briefing on such modifications approved by the Strategic Basing Group.
                                 
                              
                           
                        
                        
                           (d)
                           List of proposed military installations for site visits
                           
                              (1)
                              
                                 (A)
                                 After reviewing the relevant information provided by the appropriate commanders of military installations and commanders of tenant or other relevant activities with respect to the report approved by the Strategic Basing Group under subsection (c), the Strategic Basing Lead shall—
                                 
                                    (i)
                                    determine which military installations in such report are the most suitable for a site survey; and
                                 
                                 
                                    (ii)
                                    complete a scorecard for each military installation, using the criteria developed under subsection (c)(1)(A), to evaluate the suitability of each military installation for implementing the strategic basing decision. 
                                 
                              
                              
                                 (B)
                                 The Strategic Basing Lead shall submit to the Strategic Basing Panel a report containing the information described in subparagraph (A).
                              
                           
                           
                              (2)
                              
                                 (A)
                                 Not later than 30 days after receipt of the report required under paragraph (1), the Strategic Basing Panel shall review such report and submit to the Strategic Basing Group a determination of which military installations in such report are most suitable for a site survey.
                              
                              
                                 (B)
                                 If the Strategic Basing Panel rejects the inclusion of a military installation under the review required under subparagraph (A), the Assistant Secretary shall require the Strategic Basing Lead to submit to the Strategic Basing Panel a modified list of military installations for a subsequent review to be conducted in accordance with subparagraph (A).
                              
                              
                                 (C)
                                 There shall be no limitation on the number of times the Assistant Secretary may require the Strategic Basing Lead to submit to the Strategic Basing Panel a modified list of military installations.
                              
                              
                                 (D)
                                 The Strategic Basing Panel shall submit to the Strategic Basing Group a report that includes the approved list of military installations and the relevant scorecards for such military installations.
                              
                           
                           
                              (3)
                              
                                 (A)
                                 The Strategic Basing Group shall review the report submitted under paragraph (2)(D) and submit to the Assistant Secretary a determination of which military installations on the list are most suitable for a site survey. 
                              
                              
                                 (B)
                                 If the Strategic Basing Group rejects the inclusion of a military installation under the review required under subparagraph (A), the Assistant Secretary shall require the Strategic Basing Panel to submit to the Strategic Basing Group a modified list of military installations for a subsequent review to be conducted in accordance with subparagraph (A).
                              
                              
                                 (C)
                                 There shall be no limitation on the number of times the Assistant Secretary may require the Strategic Basing Panel to submit to the Strategic Basing Group a modified list of military installations.
                              
                              
                                 (D)
                                 The Strategic Basing Group shall submit to the Assistant Secretary a report that includes the approved list of military installations and the relevant scorecards for such military installations.
                              
                           
                           
                              (4)
                              Not later than 14 days after the date of receipt of the report under paragraph (3)(D), the Assistant Secretary shall provide to the Committees on Armed Services of the House of Representatives and the Senate a briefing on such report that includes the relevant scorecards for each military installation included in such report. 
                           
                           
                              (5)
                              After providing the briefing described in paragraph (4), the Assistant Secretary shall make the list described in such paragraph publicly available.
                           
                        
                        
                           (e)
                           Recommendation of a military installation
                           
                              (1)
                              The Strategic Basing Lead shall conduct a site survey at each military installation included on the list approved by the Strategic Basing Group in the report described in subsection (d)(3)(D).
                           
                           
                              (2)
                              Not later than 60 days after the completion of all site surveys, the Strategic Basing Lead shall submit to the Strategic Basing Panel a report containing the results of each such survey, including—
                              
                                 (A)
                                 an updated scorecard described in subsection (d)(1)(a)(ii) for each military installation using information from the site survey for such installation; and
                              
                              
                                 (B)
                                 a comprehensive cost evaluation of implementing the strategic basing action at each such military installation.
                              
                           
                           
                              (3)
                              
                                 (A)
                                 Not later than 30 days after receipt of the report required under paragraph (2), the Strategic Basing Panel shall review such report and submit to the Strategic Basing Group a report that includes—
                                 
                                    (i)
                                    a recommendation of a single military installation from the report as the most suitable for implementation of the strategic basing action, and a list of any reasonable alternatives; and
                                 
                                 
                                    (ii)
                                    data on each military installation for which a site survey was conducted under paragraph (1), including the updated scorecard described in paragraph (2)(A).
                                 
                              
                              
                                 (B)
                                 If the Strategic Basing Panel cannot recommend a single military installation under the review required under subparagraph (A), the Assistant Secretary shall require the Strategic Basing Lead to submit to the Strategic Basing Panel a modified scorecard and cost evaluation for each military installation for a subsequent review to be conducted in accordance with subparagraph (A).
                              
                              
                                 (C)
                                 There shall be no limitation on the number of times the Assistant Secretary may require the Strategic Basing Lead to submit to the Strategic Basing Panel a modified scorecard and cost evaluation.
                              
                              
                                 (D)
                                 The Strategic Basing Panel shall submit to the Strategic Basing Group a report that includes the recommendation of a single military installation and the relevant scorecard for such military installation.
                              
                           
                           
                              (4)
                              
                                 (A)
                                 The Strategic Basing Group shall evaluate the single military installation from the report required under paragraph (3)(D) and determine whether or not to recommend to the Assistant Secretary implementation of the strategic basing action at such installation.
                              
                              
                                 (B)
                                 If the Strategic Basing Group cannot recommend implementing the strategic basing action at such military installation, the Assistant Secretary shall require the Strategic Basing Panel to submit to the Strategic Basing Group a modified scorecard and cost evaluation for another military installation included in the report submitted under paragraph (2) for a subsequent review to be conducted in accordance with subparagraph (A).
                              
                              
                                 (C)
                                 There shall be no limitation on the number of times the Assistant Secretary may require the Strategic Basing Panel to submit to the Strategic Basing Group a modified scorecard and cost evaluation.
                              
                              
                                 (D)
                                 The Strategic Basing Group shall submit to the Assistant Secretary a report that includes a recommendation of a single military installation for implementation of the strategic basing action, and a list of any reasonable alternatives.
                              
                           
                           
                              (5)
                              The Assistant Secretary shall submit to the Secretary of the Air Force an analysis of the recommendation of a single military installation for implementation of the strategic basing action made by the Strategic Basing Group, including all relevant data and a list of any reasonable alternatives.
                           
                           
                              (6)
                              The Secretary of the Air Force shall make a determination to implement the strategic basing action at the military installation recommended under paragraph (5). 
                           
                           
                              (7)
                              Not later than 14 days after submission of a recommendation under paragraph (5), the Secretary of the Air Force shall provide to the Committees on Armed Services of the House of Representatives and the Senate a briefing on the decision to implement the strategic basing action at a military installation, including—
                              
                                 (A)
                                 the site surveys conducted under paragraph (1);
                              
                              
                                 (B)
                                 the reports submitted under paragraphs (2), (3), and (4); and
                              
                              
                                 (C)
                                 the recommendation made under paragraph (5).
                              
                           
                           
                              (8)
                              After providing the briefing described in paragraph (7), the Assistant Secretary shall make the recommendation described in such paragraph publicly available.
                           
                        
                        
                           (f)
                           Selection of military installation
                           
                              (1)
                              Not later than 90 days after the completion of all reviews required under this section, the Secretary of the Air Force may begin implementation of the strategic basing action for which such reviews were conducted and shall publicly announce the military installation at which such strategic basing action will be implemented.
                           
                           
                              (2)
                              No amounts may be obligated or expended, and no personnel, equipment, or other resources of the Department of Defense may be detailed, transferred, obligated, or assigned to implement a strategic basing action under this section until the date on which the Secretary of the Air Force makes the public announcement described in paragraph (1).
                           
                        
                        
                           (g)
                           Applicability
                           This section and the requirements of this section shall apply to a basing action request submitted on or after the date of the enactment of this section.
                        
                        
                           (h)
                           Requirements for programmatic basing decisions
                           
                              (1)
                              The Assistant Secretary may not make a programmatic basing decision (as described in chapter 7 of the Department of the Air Force Instruction 10–503 issued June 12, 2023, as in effect on April 1, 2024) with respect to a basing action request submitted under subsection (a) until the Secretary of the Air Force—
                              
                                 (A)
                                 has published a revision of such instruction that includes a definition of programmatic basing decision; and
                              
                              
                                 (B)
                                 provides to the congressional defense committees a briefing on such revision that includes a description of the process for making a programmatic basing decision (as revised under subparagraph (A)) and the criteria evaluated under such process.
                              
                           
                           
                              (2)
                              With respect to a basing action request submitted under subsection (a) for which the Assistant Secretary determines a programmatic basing decision (as defined under the revision required by paragraph (1)) may be made, the Assistant Secretary—
                              
                                 (A)
                                 shall submit to the congressional defense committees an explanation justifying why such request was not determined to be a strategic basing action;
                              
                              
                                 (B)
                                 shall provide to the congressional defense committees a briefing on the implementation of the programmatic basing decision; and
                              
                              
                                 (C)
                                 may not implement the programmatic basing decision until 30 days after the later of the date on which the submission described in subparagraph (A) or the briefing described in subparagraph (B) is made.
                              
                           
                           
                              (3)
                              Upon implementation of the programmatic basing decision (as defined under the revision required by paragraph (1)) for a basing action request submitted under subsection (a), the Secretary of the Air Force may not implement such request pursuant to the processes established for a strategic basing decision.
                           
                        
                        
                           (i)
                           Definitions
                           In this section:
                           
                              (1)
                              The term action proponent has the meaning given in the Department of the Air Force Instruction 10–503 issued June 12, 2023, as in effect on April 1, 2024. 
                           
                           
                              (2)
                              The term Assistant Secretary means the Assistant Secretary of the Air Force for Energy, Installations, and Environment.
                           
                           
                              (3)
                              The term basing action means an action by the Secretary of the Air Force to determine the location or relocation of a unit, an establishment, a mission, manpower, or a major weapon system (as defined in section 483 of title 10, United States Code) of the Air Force or Space Force for a period of one year or longer.
                           
                           
                              (4)
                              The term military installation has the meaning given in section 2801 of title 10, United States Code.
                           
                           
                              (5)
                              The term strategic basing action means a basing action that involves one or more of the following:
                              
                                 (A)
                                 Location or relocation of aircraft and non-aircraft weapon systems.
                              
                              
                                 (B)
                                 An increase or decrease of 35 or more personnel assigned to a military installation, including members of the Department of the Air Force, civilian employees of the Department of the Air Force, and contractors.
                              
                              
                                 (C)
                                 A request to move a non-Air Force entity onto a military installation or other real property of the Air Force.
                              
                              
                                 (D)
                                 A continuous rotational presence of a Department of the Air Force or non-Air Force entity on a military installation or other real property of the Air Force that would require—
                                 
                                    (i)
                                    a new military construction project; or
                                 
                                 
                                    (ii)
                                    presence for more than 300 days during a consecutive 18-month period with a increase of 35 or more personnel.
                                 
                              
                              
                                 (E)
                                 Any special interest action, regardless of scope or size, as determined by the Secretary of the Air Force or Secretary of Defense.
                              
                           
                           
                              (6)
                              The term Strategic Basing Group means a forum of officers in a grade of O–7 or O–8 and the civilian equivalents of such officers convened by the Assistant Secretary to evaluate strategic basing actions and providing alternatives to such strategic basing actions that are consistent with the operations, basing objectives, policies, and programming requirements of the Department of the Air Force.
                           
                           
                              (7)
                              The term Strategic Basing Lead means a commander of a major command, field command, or national guard base, and may be the action proponent that submitted a request under subsection (a).
                           
                           
                              (8)
                              The term Strategic Basing Panel means a forum of officers in a grade of O–6 and the civilian equivalents of such officers convened by the Assistant Secretary to support the Strategic Basing Group by providing an initial comprehensive review and assessment of a request for a strategic basing action.
                           
                        
                     
                     .
                  
               
               
                  2832.
                  INCLUSION OF TRIBAL GOVERNMENTS IN INTERGOVERNMENTAL SUPPORT AGREEMENTS FOR INSTALLATION-SUPPORT SERVICES
                  Section 2679 of title 10, United States Code, is amended by striking State or local government each place it appears and inserting State, local, or tribal. 
               
               
                  2833.
                  IMPROVEMENTS RELATING TO ACCESS TO MILITARY INSTALLATIONS IN UNITED STATES
                  
                     (a)
                     Additional categories for expedited access
                     
                        Chapter 159 of title 10, United States Code, is amended by adding at the end the following new section:
                     
                        
                           2698.
                           ACCESS TO MILITARY INSTALLATIONS: STANDARDS FOR ENTRY TO MILITARY INSTALLATIONS IN UNITED STATES
                           
                              (a)
                              Access to military installations in United States
                              
                                 (1)
                                 The Secretary of Defense shall develop and maintain access standards applicable to all military installations in the United States. Such access standards shall require screening standards appropriate to the type of installation involved, the security level of the installation, the category of individuals authorized to visit the installation, and the level of access to be granted, including—
                                 
                                    (A)
                                    protocols and criteria to determine the fitness of the individual to enter a military installation;
                                 
                                 
                                    (B)
                                    standards and methods for verifying the identity of the individual; and
                                 
                                 
                                    (C)
                                    other factors the Secretary determines appropriate.
                                 
                              
                              
                                 (2)
                                 In developing the access standards under paragraph (1), the Secretary shall—
                                 
                                    (A)
                                    include procedures to facilitate recurring unescorted access to military installations in the United States, in appropriate cases, for covered individuals the Secretary determines eligible for such recurring unescorted access; and 
                                 
                                 
                                    (B)
                                    issue guidance relating to the granting of unescorted access to military installations in the United States for covered individuals.
                                 
                              
                              
                                 (3)
                                 The procedures developed pursuant to paragraph (2)(A) shall include, to the extent practical, a list of credentials that can be used for such recurring unescorted access to such a military installation that are, to the extent practical, credentials non-Department of Defense personnel already possess.
                              
                              
                                 (4)
                                 The guidance issued pursuant to paragraph (2)(B) shall—
                                 
                                    (A)
                                    identify the categories of covered individuals eligible for such unescorted access;
                                 
                                 
                                    (B)
                                    include a list of credentials that can be used for such unescorted access to such a military installation that are, to the extent practical, the credentials described in paragraph (3);
                                 
                                 
                                    (C)
                                    be consistent across such military installations;
                                 
                                 
                                    (D)
                                    be in accordance with any privileges or benefits accorded under, procedures developed pursuant to, or requirements of, each covered provision and paragraph (1); and
                                 
                                 
                                    (E)
                                     be provided to the commanders of each such military installation.
                                 
                              
                              
                                 (5)
                                 Upon publication in the Federal Register of access standards described in paragraph (1), the Secretary shall publish such access standards on a publicly accessible website of the Department of Defense.
                              
                              
                                 (6)
                                 In carrying out this subsection, the Secretary shall seek to use existing identification screening technology to validate federally-recognized access credentials and develop additional technology only to the extent necessary to assist commanders of military installations in the United States in implementing the access standards under paragraph (1) at points of entry for such military installations. 
                              
                           
                           
                              (b)
                              Pre-arrival protocol for access to military installations in United States
                              The Secretary shall ensure that the access standards under subsection (a) include a specific protocol for the voluntary pre-arrival registration and screening of individuals anticipating a need for access to a military installation in the United States to establish the fitness of such individual and the purpose of such access. Under such protocol—
                              
                                 (1)
                                 such a registration and screening shall occur not less than 24 hours and not more than 14 days prior to the time of such access; and
                              
                              
                                 (2)
                                 if an individual is determined fit to enter the installation pursuant to the pre-arrival registration and screening, access may only be granted upon arrival at the military installation for the stated purpose following a verification of the identity of the individual.
                              
                           
                           
                              (c)
                              Reviews and submission to Congress
                              Not less frequently than once every five years, the Secretary shall—
                              
                                 (1)
                                 review the access standards and guidance under this section, and make such updates as may be determined appropriate by the Secretary; and
                              
                              
                                 (2)
                                 submit to the Committees on Armed Services of the House of Representatives and the Senate the most recently reviewed and, as applicable, updated version of such access standards and guidance.
                              
                           
                           
                              (d)
                              Definitions
                              In this section:
                              
                                 (1)
                                 The term covered individual means the following:
                                 
                                    (A)
                                    A member of the armed forces or civilian employee of the Department of Defense, or an employee or family member of such member or employee, who resides, attends school, receives health care services, or shops at a commissary or exchange store on a military installation in the United States.
                                 
                                 
                                    (B)
                                    A retired member of the armed forces, including the reserve components, or a family member of such retired member, who resides, attend schools, receives health care services, or shops at a commissary or exchange store on such an installation.
                                 
                                 
                                    (C)
                                    An individual performing work at such an installation under a contract or subcontract (at any tier), including a military construction project, military family housing project, or a facilities sustainment, restoration, and modernization project.
                                 
                                 
                                    (D)
                                    A motor carrier or household goods motor carrier (as such terms are defined in section 13102 of title 49) providing transportation services for the United States Transportation Command. 
                                 
                              
                              
                                 (2)
                                 The term covered provision means the following:
                                 
                                    (A)
                                    Chapter 54 of this title.
                                 
                                 
                                    (B)
                                    Section 202 of the REAL ID Act of 2005 (Public Law 109–13; 49 U.S.C. 30301 note).
                                 
                                 
                                    (C)
                                    Section 2812 of the National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2013 (Public Law 112–239; 126 Stat. 2150; 10 U.S.C. 113 note).
                                 
                                 
                                    (D)
                                    Sections 346 and 1050 of the National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2017 (Public Law 114–328; 10 U.S.C. 113 note).
                                 
                                 
                                    (E)
                                    Section 626 of the John S. McCain National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2019 (Public Law 115–232; 132 Stat. 1802; 10 U.S.C. 113 note).
                                 
                                 
                                    (F)
                                    Section 1090 of the William M. (Mac) Thornberry National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2021 (Public Law 116–283; 134 Stat. 3879; 10 U.S.C. 113 note).
                                 
                                 
                                    (G)
                                    Section 2833 of the James M. Inhofe National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2023 (Public Law 117–263; 136 Stat. 3003).
                                 
                              
                              
                                 (3)
                                 The term federally-recognized access credential means a credential authorized by Federal law or otherwise issued by the head of a department or agency of the Federal Government that requires the vetting of an individual for access to a facility, area, or program.
                              
                              
                                 (4)
                                 The term military installation has the meaning given such term in section 2801 of this title.
                              
                              
                                 (5)
                                 The term State means any of the several States, the District of Columbia, the Commonwealth of Puerto Rico, Guam, American Samoa, the Virgin Islands of the United States, or the Commonwealth of the Northern Mariana Islands.
                              
                              
                                 (6)
                                 The term United States includes each State, as such term is defined in this subsection.
                              
                           
                        
                        .
                     
                  
                  
                     (b)
                     Deadline for first review and submission to Congress
                     Not later than 180 days after the date of the enactment of this Act, the Secretary of Defense shall—
                     
                        (1)
                        conduct the first review of the access standards and guidance required under section 2698 of title 10, United States Code (as added by subsection (a)); and
                     
                     
                        (2)
                        submit to the Committees on Armed Services of the House of Representatives and the Senate the reviewed and, as applicable, updated version of such access standards and guidance.
                     
                  
                  
                     (c)
                     Modification to certain notification requirement
                     Section 1090(b)(2)(B) of the William M. (Mac) Thornberry National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2021 (Public Law 116–283; 134 Stat. 3879; 10 U.S.C. 113 note) is amended by striking is and inserting and, as appropriate, the Secretary of Homeland Security and the Director of the Federal Bureau of Investigation, are.
                  
                  
                     (d)
                     Technical and conforming amendments
                     
                        (1)
                        Repeal of duplicate provision
                        Section 1069 of the National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2008 (Public Law 110–181; 122 Stat. 326) is repealed.
                     
                     
                        (2)
                        Conforming amendments to prior National Defense Authorization Act
                        Section 1050 of the National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2017 (10 U.S.C. 113 note; 130 Stat. 2396) is amended—
                        
                           (A)
                           in the heading, by striking 
                                 Department of Defense installations
                               and inserting 
                                 military installations
                              ;
                        
                        
                           (B)
                           in subsection (a), by striking Department of Defense installations and inserting military installations in the United States;
                        
                        
                           (C)
                           in subsection (b), by striking Department of Defense facilities and inserting military installations in the United States; and
                        
                        
                           (D)
                           by adding at the end the following new subsection:
                           
                              
                                 (c)
                                 Definitions
                                 In this section, the terms military installation and United States have the meanings given such terms in section 2698(e) of title 10, United States Code.
                              
                              .
                           
                        
                     
                  
               
               
                  2834.
                  DEFERRAL OF EXECUTION OF CERTAIN REQUIREMENTS FOR COVERED HOUSING FACILITIES AND COVERED LANDSCAPE FEATURES; REPORT
                  
                     (a)
                     Authorities
                     Notwithstanding any provision of chapter 3041 or chapter 3061 of title 54, United States Code, that requires review from or consultation with the head of any other Federal agency, each Secretary of a military department may defer the execution of the requirements of each such chapter with respect to a covered housing facility or covered landscape feature until the date that is 60 years after the date on which the construction of such covered housing facility or covered landscape feature was completed.
                  
                  
                     (b)
                     Report
                     Not later than 180 days after the date of the enactment of this section, each Secretary of a military department shall submit to the appropriate congressional committees a report that includes—
                     
                        (1)
                        an identification of covered housing facilities under the respective jurisdiction of each such Secretary constructed between 1975 and 1985; and
                     
                     
                        (2)
                        a strategy for the demolition or management, as the case may be, of each such covered housing facility.
                     
                  
                  
                     (c)
                     Definitions
                     In this section:
                     
                        (1)
                        The term appropriate congressional committees means—
                        
                           (A)
                           the congressional defense committees;
                        
                        
                           (B)
                           the Committee on Natural Resources of the House of Representatives; and
                        
                        
                           (C)
                           the Committee on Energy and Natural Resources of the Senate.
                        
                     
                     
                        (2)
                        The term covered housing facility means a housing facility that—
                        
                           (A)
                           is subject to the requirements of chapter 3061 of title 54, United States Code;
                        
                        
                           (B)
                           is located on a military installation;
                        
                        
                           (C)
                           is under the jurisdiction of a Secretary of a military department; and
                        
                        
                           (D)
                           was constructed after December 31, 1975.
                        
                     
                     
                        (3)
                        The term covered landscape feature means a landscape feature (as such term is used in the document of the Office of the Assistant Secretary of the Army for Installations, Energy and Environment titled Program Comment for the Preservation of pre-1919 Historic Army Housing, Associated Buildings and Structures, and Landscape Features and published on March 1, 2024) that—
                        
                           (A)
                           is subject to such chapter;
                        
                        
                           (B)
                           is located on a military installation;
                        
                        
                           (C)
                           is under the jurisdiction of a Secretary of a military department; and
                        
                        
                           (D)
                           was constructed after December 31, 1975.
                        
                     
                     
                        (4)
                        The term facility has the meaning given such term in section 2801 of title 10, United States Code.
                     
                  
               
               
                  2835.
                  PILOT PROGRAMS OF DEPARTMENT OF ARMY AND DEPARTMENT OF NAVY TO CONDUCT REPAIR AND MAINTENANCE PROJECTS ON COVERED HISTORIC FACILITIES
                  
                     (a)
                     Establishment
                     Notwithstanding any provision of chapter 3041 or chapter 3061 of title 54, United States Code, that requires review from or consultation with the head of any other Federal agency, each applicable Secretary shall carry out a pilot program under which the applicable Secretary may enter into agreements to conduct repair and maintenance projects on covered historic facilities.
                  
                  
                     (b)
                     Selection criteria
                     
                        (1)
                        In general
                        Each applicable Secretary shall select one military installation under the jurisdiction of the applicable Secretary concerned at which to carry out a pilot program under subsection (a). 
                     
                     
                        (2)
                        Priority
                        In selecting a military installation pursuant to paragraph (1), an applicable Secretary shall give priority to military installations at which such Secretary determines there exists a large quantity of covered historic facilities.
                     
                  
                  
                     (c)
                     Notification
                     Not later than 30 days after the date on which an applicable Secretary selects a military installation pursuant to subsection (b), the applicable Secretary concerned shall submit to the appropriate congressional committees a notification of such selection.
                  
                  
                     (d)
                     Standards for projects
                     
                        (1)
                        In general
                        Each repair and maintenance project conducted pursuant to a pilot program under subsection (a) shall be in accordance with relevant standards established by the Secretary of the Interior for historic building preservation and maintenance.
                     
                     
                        (2)
                        Rule of construction
                        Nothing in this subsection shall be construed to require an applicable Secretary to consult the Secretary of the Interior with respect to a repair or maintenance project conducted pursuant to a pilot program under subsection (a).
                     
                  
                  
                     (e)
                     Sunset
                     The authority of an applicable Secretary to obligate or expend amounts to carry out a pilot program under this section shall terminate on December 31, 2029.
                  
                  
                     (f)
                     Definitions
                     In this section:
                     
                        (1)
                        The term applicable Secretary means—
                        
                           (A)
                           the Secretary of the Army; and
                        
                        
                           (B)
                            the Secretary of the Navy.
                        
                     
                     
                        (2)
                        The term appropriate congressional committees means—
                        
                           (A)
                           the congressional defense committees;
                        
                        
                           (B)
                           the Committee on Natural Resources of the House of Representatives; and
                        
                        
                           (C)
                           the Committee on Energy and Natural Resources of the Senate.
                        
                     
                     
                        (3)
                        The term covered historic facility means a housing or operational facility located on a military installation under the jurisdiction of the applicable Secretary concerned that—
                        
                           (A)
                           was constructed before 1919; and
                        
                        
                           (B)
                           is subject to the requirements of chapter 3061 of title 54, United States Code.
                        
                     
                     
                        (4)
                        The term military installation has the meaning given in section 2801 of title 10, United States Code.
                     
                  
               
               
                  2836.
                  STRATEGY AND ASSESSMENT WITH RESPECT TO NON-OPERATIONAL, UNDERUTILIZED, AND OTHER DEPARTMENT OF DEFENSE FACILITIES; BRIEFING REQUIRED
                  
                     (a)
                     Strategy for demolition
                     Each Secretary of a military department shall develop a strategy to demolish facilities under the respective jurisdiction of each such Secretary that—
                     
                        (1)
                        are in poor or failing condition under the uniform index developed under section 2838 of the National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2024 (Public Law 118–31);
                     
                     
                        (2)
                        are not in operational use; or
                     
                     
                        (3)
                        such Secretary determines are underutilized.
                     
                  
                  
                     (b)
                     Assessment of certain maintenance costs
                     Each Secretary of a military department shall conduct an assessment to determine the total cost to the United States to maintain facilities that—
                     
                        (1)
                        are not in operational use; and
                     
                     
                        (2)
                        such Secretary determines are underutilized.
                     
                  
                  
                     (c)
                     Required consideration
                     In determining whether a facility is underutilized pursuant to subsection (a) or subsection (b), each Secretary of a military department shall compare the occupancy of such facility to the total square footage of such facility.
                  
                  
                     (d)
                     Briefing
                     
                        (1)
                        In general
                        Not later than 180 days after the date of enactment of this Act, each Secretary of a military department shall provide to congressional defense committees a briefing on—
                        
                           (A)
                           the strategy required by subsection (a); and
                        
                        
                           (B)
                           the results of the assessment required by subsection (b).
                        
                     
                     
                        (2)
                        Elements
                        Each such briefing shall include—
                        
                           (A)
                           a summary of the existing authorities of each Secretary of a military department to demolish the facilities covered by the strategy required by subsection (a);
                        
                        
                           (B)
                           a plan to implement such strategy; and
                        
                        
                           (C)
                           recommendations of each such Secretary with respect to reducing—
                           
                              (i)
                              the inventory of facilities in poor or failing condition under the uniform index developed under section 2838 of the National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2024 (Public Law 118–31); and
                           
                           
                              (ii)
                              the total cost to the United States to maintain the facilities covered by the assessment required by subsection (b).
                           
                        
                     
                  
                  
                     (e)
                     Facility defined
                     In this section, the term facility has the meaning given such term in section 2801 of title 10, United States Code.
                  
               
               
                  2837.
                  TEMPORARY AUTHORITY FOR USE OF IMITATIVE SUBSTITUTE BUILDING MATERIALS FOR MAINTENANCE, REPAIR, REHABILITATION, OR RENOVATION OF COVERED HISTORIC FACILITIES
                  
                     (a)
                     Authority for use of imitative materials
                     
                        (1)
                        In general
                        Notwithstanding any provision of chapter 3041 or chapter 3061 of title 54, United States Code, that requires review from or consultation with the head of any other Federal agency, and subject to paragraph (2), each Secretary of a military department may use imitative substitute building materials in projects for the maintenance, repair, rehabilitation, or renovation of a covered historic facility.
                     
                     
                        (2)
                        Conditions
                        A Secretary of a military department may exercise the authority under paragraph (1) if the Secretary of the military department concerned determines—
                        
                           (A)
                           the applicable maintenance, repair, rehabilitation, or renovation project affects the quality of life, health, and safety of occupants, if any, of a covered historic facility; or
                        
                        
                           (B)
                           the use of building materials original to a covered historic facility or in-kind building materials in an applicable maintenance, repair, rehabilitation, or renovation project is not financially feasible.
                        
                     
                  
                  
                     (b)
                     Sunset
                     The authority of a Secretary of a military department to obligate or expend amounts pursuant to this section shall terminate on December 30, 2029.
                  
                  
                     (c)
                     Definitions
                     In this section:
                     
                        (1)
                        The term covered historic facility means a housing or operational facility located on a military installation under the jurisdiction of a Secretary of a military department that—
                        
                           (A)
                           was constructed before 1919; and
                        
                        
                           (B)
                           is subject to the requirements of chapter 3061 of title 54, United States Code.
                        
                     
                     
                        (2)
                        The term imitative substitute building materials means modern, industry-standard, natural, composite, and synthetic materials that—
                        
                           (A)
                           simulate the appearance of building materials original to a covered historic facility; and
                        
                        
                           (B)
                           are more cost effective than such building materials.
                        
                     
                     
                        (3)
                        The term military installation has the meaning given in section 2801 of title 10, United States Code.
                     
                  
               
               
                  2838.
                  EXPENDITURES ON LEASED FACILITIES AND REAL PROPERTY USAGE IN THE NATIONAL CAPITAL REGION
                  
                     (a)
                     In general
                     Not later than ten years after the date of the enactment of this Act, the Secretary of Defense shall reduce expenditures on facilities leased by the Department of Defense located in the National Capital Region by 50 percent.
                  
                  
                     (b)
                     Limitation on availability of funds
                     Of the funds authorized to be appropriated by this Act or otherwise made available for fiscal year 2025, and available for the Office of the Secretary of Defense for the travel of persons, not more than 90 percent may be obligated or expended until the date on which the Secretary of Defense provides to the congressional defense committees the briefing required in the Joint Explanatory Statement of the National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2024 (Public Law 118–31) on real property usage within the National Capital Region.
                  
                  
                     (c)
                     National Capital Region defined
                     The term National Capital Region has the meaning given in section 2674 of title 10, United States Code.
                  
               
               
                  2839.
                  SCREENING AND REGISTRY OF INDIVIDUALS WITH HEALTH CONDITIONS RESULTING FROM UNSAFE HOUSING UNITS
                  
                     (a)
                     In general
                     Subchapter V of chapter 169 of title 10, United States Code, is amended by adding at the end the following new section:
                     
                        
                           2895.
                           SCREENING AND REGISTRY OF INDIVIDUALS WITH HEALTH CONDITIONS RESULTING FROM UNSAFE HOUSING UNITS
                           
                              (a)
                              Screening
                              
                                 (1)
                                 In general
                                 The Secretary of Defense, in consultation with appropriate scientific agencies as determined by the Secretary, shall ensure that all military medical treatment facilities screen eligible individuals for covered conditions.
                              
                              
                                 (2)
                                 Establishment of procedures
                                 The Secretary may establish procedures through which screening under paragraph (1) may allow an eligible individual to be included in the registry under subsection (b).
                              
                           
                           
                              (b)
                              Registry
                              
                                 (1)
                                 In general
                                 The Secretary of Defense shall establish and maintain a registry of eligible individuals who have a covered condition.
                              
                              
                                 (2)
                                 Inclusion of information
                                 The Secretary shall include any information in the registry under paragraph (1) that the Secretary determines necessary to ascertain and monitor the health of eligible individuals and the connection between the health of such individuals and an unsafe housing unit.
                              
                              
                                 (3)
                                 Public information campaign
                                 The Secretary shall develop a public information campaign to inform eligible individuals about the registry under paragraph (1), including how to register and the benefits of registering.
                              
                           
                           
                              (c)
                              Definitions
                              In this section:
                              
                                 (1)
                                 The term covered condition means a medical condition that is determined by the Secretary of Defense to have resulted from residing in an unsafe housing unit.
                              
                              
                                 (2)
                                 The term eligible individual means a member of the armed forces or a family member of a member of the armed forces who has resided in an unsafe housing unit.
                              
                              
                                 (3)
                                 The term unsafe housing unit means a dwelling unit that—
                                 
                                    (A)
                                    does not meet the housing quality standards established under section 8(o)(8)(B) of the United States Housing Act of 1937 (42 U.S.C. 1437f(o)(8)(B)); or
                                 
                                 
                                    (B)
                                    is not free from dangerous air pollution levels from mold.
                                 
                              
                           
                        
                        .
                     
                  
                  
                     (b)
                     Clerical amendment
                     The table of sections at the beginning of such subchapter is amended by inserting after the item relating to section 2894a the following new item:
                     
                        
                           2895. Screening and registry of individuals with health conditions resulting from unsafe housing units.
                        
                        .
                     
                  
               
               
                  2839A.
                  PROHIBITION ON USE BY AIR FORCE OF CORPORATE STRUCTURE IN CONDUCTING CERTAIN BASING DECISIONS
                  
                     (a)
                     In general
                     The Secretary of the Air Force may not make any basing decision during the resource allocation plan or program objective memorandum process of the Department of the Air Force (commonly known as a programmatic basing decision) through the use of the DAF Corporate Structure set forth under chapters 3.2 and 7.1 of the Department of the Air Force Instruction 10–503, dated June 12, 2023, relating to strategic basing.
                  
                  
                     (b)
                     Update of instruction and other policy
                     Not later than 30 days after the date of the enactment of this Act, the Secretary of the Air Force shall update any instruction or other policy of the Department of the Air Force to include the prohibition under subsection (a).
                  
               
               
                  2839B.
                  TECHNICAL CORRECTION TO MAP REFERENCE IN THE MILITARY LAND WITHDRAWALS ACT OF 2013
                  Subtitle G of the Military Land Withdrawals Act of 2013 (Public Law 113–66; 127 Stat. 1025; 136 Stat. 3027) is amended by striking November 30, 2022 each place it appears and inserting May 22, 2024.
               
               
                  2839C.
                  RESEARCH, STANDARDS, AND OTHER REQUIREMENTS RELATING TO INDOOR RESIDENTIAL MOLD
                  
                     (a)
                     Research on health impacts of indoor residential mold
                     
                        (1)
                        Research
                        
                           (A)
                           In general
                           As soon as practicable after the date of enactment of this Act, the Secretary of Defense, in consultation with the Director of the Assistant Secretary of Defense for Health Affairs, the Secretary of Housing and Urban Development, the Director of the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention, the Administrator of the Environmental Protection Agency, the Secretary of Energy, the Secretary of Health and Human Services, the President of the National Academy of Sciences, and the Chair of the Board of Directors of the National Institute of Building Sciences shall conduct a comprehensive study of the health effects of indoor residential mold growth in barracks or other housing on military installations, using the most up-to-date scientific peer-reviewed medical literature.
                        
                        
                           (B)
                           Contents
                           The study conducted under subparagraph (A) shall ascertain—
                           
                              (i)
                              detailed information about harmful or toxigenic mold that may impact the services and those living on military installations, as well as any toxin or toxic compound such mold can produce;
                           
                           
                              (ii)
                              the most accurate research-based methods of detecting harmful or toxigenic mold;
                           
                           
                              (iii)
                              potential dangers of prolonged or chronic exposure to indoor residential mold growth in residential areas on military installations;
                           
                           
                              (iv)
                              the hazards involved with inadequate mold inspections on military installations and improper indoor residential mold remediation in barracks on military installations;
                           
                           
                              (v)
                              the estimated current public health burden of new or exacerbated physical illness resulting from exposure to indoor residential mold on the military services and its effect on quality of life as it impacts readiness, including its impact on children in military families;
                           
                           
                              (vi)
                              improved understanding of the different health symptomology that can result from exposure to mold in indoor residential environments on military installations, including military barracks;
                           
                           
                              (vii)
                              ongoing surveillance of the prevalence of idiopathic pulmonary hemorrhage in infants living on military installations; and
                           
                           
                              (viii)
                              longitudinal studies on the effects of indoor old exposure in early childhood on the development of asthma and other respiratory illnesses of children living on military installations.
                           
                        
                        
                           (C)
                           Availability
                           Not later than the expiration of the 3-year period beginning on the date of the enactment of this Act, the results of the study conducted under subparagraph (A) shall be submitted to Congress and the President and made available to the general public.
                        
                     
                  
                  
                     (b)
                     Health, safety, and habitability standards and model standards
                     
                        (1)
                        Model standards for preventing, detecting, and remediating indoor residential mold growth
                        Based on the results of the interagency health study conducted under subsection (a), the Secretary of Defense, in consultation with the Administrator of the Environmental Protection Agency, the Secretary of Housing and Urban Development, the Director of the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention, the Assistant Secretary of Labor for Occupational Safety and Health at the Occupational Safety and Health Administration, the Secretary of Energy, the Executive Director of the National Institute of Building Sciences, and the President of the National Academy of Sciences shall, in accordance with section 12(d) of the National Technology Transfer and Advancement Act of 1995 (15 U.S.C. 272 note; Public Law 104–113), jointly issue model health, safety, and habitability standards for preventing, detecting, and remediating indoor residential mold growth on military installations, including—
                        
                           (A)
                           model residential mold inspection standards for military barracks;
                        
                        
                           (B)
                           model indoor residential mold remediation standards for military installations;
                        
                        
                           (C)
                           standards for testing the toxicity of indoor residential mold and any toxin or toxic compound produced by indoor residential mold on military installations;
                        
                        
                           (D)
                           health and safety standards for the protection of those inspecting for and remediating mold in housing on military installations;
                        
                        
                           (E)
                           standards for indoor residential mold testing labs that serve military installations;
                        
                        
                           (F)
                           model ventilation standards for the design, installation, and maintenance of air ventilation or air-conditioning systems in housing on military installations to prevent indoor residential mold growth or the creation of conditions that foster indoor mold growth in housing on military installations; and
                        
                        
                           (G)
                           model building code standards for housing on military installations to control moisture and prevent mold growth.
                        
                     
                     
                        (2)
                        Consultation
                        To the maximum extent possible, model standards issued under this subsection shall be developed with the assistance of—
                        
                           (A)
                           organizations that develop mold and water damage standards and work with military installations;
                        
                        
                           (B)
                           organizations involved in establishing national building construction standards and work with military installations;
                        
                        
                           (C)
                           organizations involved in improving indoor air quality;
                        
                        
                           (D)
                           public health advocates that serve the military community; and
                        
                        
                           (E)
                           health and medical professionals that serve military servicemembers and their families, including practitioners that care for children of servicemembers.
                        
                     
                     
                        (3)
                        Resiliency
                        Model standards issued under this subsection shall take into account geographic diversity, propensity for extreme weather or flooding, and other resiliency metrics impacting military housing.
                     
                     
                        (4)
                        Deadlines
                        
                           (A)
                           Public review and comment
                           The officers identified in paragraph (1) shall make draft standards issued under this section available for public review and comment at least 90 days prior to publication of the final standards or model standards pursuant to subparagraph (B).
                        
                        
                           (B)
                           Publication
                           Not later than years after the results of the study conducted under subsection (a) are submitted to Congress in accordance with such section, the officers identified in subsection (a) shall issue, and make available to the public, final standards and model standards under this section.
                        
                     
                     
                        (5)
                        Review and updates
                        The officers identified in paragraph (1) shall—
                        
                           (A)
                           review the model standards issued under this subsection at least once every 5 years based on latest scientific advances and published studies relating to indoor residential mold growth; and
                        
                        
                           (B)
                           update such standards and model standards as necessary to preserve and improve the quality of housing on military installations, and prevent the displacement of those currently living on military installations.
                        
                     
                  
                  
                     (c)
                     Construction requirements for new housing on military installations
                     
                        (1)
                        Model construction standards
                        
                           (A)
                           In general
                           The Secretary of Defense, in consultation with Secretary of Housing and Urban Development, the Executive Director of the National Institute of Building Sciences, and the President of the National Academy of Sciences, to the extent such Director and President agree to participate, shall develop model construction standards and techniques for preventing and controlling indoor residential mold in new residential properties on military installations.
                        
                        
                           (B)
                           Contents
                           The model standards and techniques shall provide for geographic differences in construction types and materials, geology, weather, and other variables that may affect indoor residential mold levels in new buildings and on various military installations.
                        
                        
                           (C)
                           Consultation
                           To the maximum extent possible, such standards and techniques shall be developed with—
                           
                              (i)
                              the assistance of organizations involved in establishing national building construction standards and techniques, especially those who do this work on military installations;
                           
                           
                              (ii)
                              the assistance of organizations that develop mold and water damage standards on military installations; and
                           
                           
                              (iii)
                              public health advocates that serve the military community.
                           
                        
                        
                           (D)
                           Publication
                           The Secretary shall make a draft of the document containing the model standards and techniques available for public review and comment. The Secretary shall make final model standards and techniques available to the public not later than one year after the date of the enactment of this Act.
                        
                        
                           (E)
                           Applicability to new construction and rehabilitation
                           Within 1 year of the publication of the final model standards and techniques required by subparagraph (D), the Secretary of Defense shall include such model standards and techniques as a requirement for residential rehabilitation or new construction projects funded with Federal appropriations made available by such agencies.
                        
                     
                  
                  
                     (d)
                     Education for military health professionals
                     The Secretary of Defense shall include education for military health professions on mold-related illness, including signs and symptoms of toxigenic mold exposure, in recurring training received by miliary health practitioners at such time and in such manner as the Secretary chooses.
                  
                  
                     (e)
                     Definitions
                     In this section:
                     
                        (1)
                        The term indoor residential mold means any form of multi-cellular fungi in indoor environments, including cladosporium, penicillium, alternaria, aspergillus, fusarium, trichoderma, memnoniella, mucor, stachybotrys chartarum, streptomyces, and epicoccumoften found in water-damaged indoor environments and building materials.
                     
                     
                        (2)
                        The term toxigenic mold means any indoor mold growth that may be capable of producing a toxin or toxic compound, including mycotoxins and mVOCs, that can cause pulmonary, respiratory, neurological, gastrointestinal, or dermatological illnesses, or other major adverse health impacts, as determined by the Secretary of Defense in consultation with the Director of the National Institutes of Health, the Secretary of Housing and Urban Development, the Administrator of the Environmental Protection Agency, and the Director of the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention.
                     
                  
               
               
                  2839D.
                  STUDY ON CONSTRUCTION OF CHILD DEVELOPMENT CENTERS
                  The Secretary of Defense shall submit to the congressional defense committees a recommendation for a strategy for military construction projects for a sufficient number of child development centers (as defined in section 2871 of title 10, United States Code) as necessary to eliminate wait lists for members of the Armed Forces seeking childcare at such child development centers.
               
            
            
               D
               Land Conveyances
               
                  2841.
                  LAND CONVEYANCE, BOYLE MEMORIAL ARMY RESERVE CENTER, PARIS, TEXAS
                  
                     (a)
                     Conveyance authorized
                     The Secretary of the Army may convey to Paris Junior College, located in Paris, Texas (in this section referred to as the College), all right, title, and interest of the United States in and to a parcel of real property, including any improvements thereon, consisting of approximately 4 acres, known as the former Boyle Memorial Army Reserve Center, located in Paris, Texas.
                  
                  
                     (b)
                     Consideration
                     
                        (1)
                        Consideration required
                        As consideration for the conveyance under subsection (a), the College shall pay to the Secretary of the Army an amount equal to not less than the fair market value of the property to be conveyed, as determined by the Secretary, which may consist of cash payment, in-kind consideration as described in paragraph (2), or a combination thereof.
                     
                     
                        (2)
                        In-kind consideration
                        In-kind consideration provided by the College under paragraph (1) may include—
                        
                           (A)
                           the acquisition, construction, provision, improvement, maintenance, repair, or restoration (including environmental restoration), or a combination thereof, of any property, facilities, or infrastructure; or
                        
                        
                           (B)
                           the delivery of services relating to the needs of the Department of the Army that the Secretary considers acceptable.
                        
                     
                     
                        (3)
                        Conveyance
                        Cash payments received under subsection (b) as consideration for the conveyance under subsection (a) shall be deposited in the special account in the Treasury established under section 572(b)(5) of title 40, United States Code.
                     
                  
                  
                     (c)
                     Payment of costs of conveyance
                     
                        (1)
                        Payment required
                        The Secretary of the Army shall require the College to cover costs to be incurred by the Secretary, or to reimburse the Secretary for such costs incurred by the Secretary, to carry out the conveyance under subsection (a), including survey costs, costs for environmental documentation related to the conveyance, and any other administrative costs related to the conveyance. If amounts are collected from the Township in advance of the Secretary incurring the actual costs, and the amount collected exceeds the costs actually incurred by the Secretary to carry out the conveyance, the Secretary shall refund the excess amount to the College.
                     
                     
                        (2)
                        Treatment of amounts received
                        Amounts received as reimbursement under paragraph (1) shall be credited to the fund or account that was used to cover the costs incurred by the Secretary in carrying out the land conveyance under subsection (a) or, if the period of availability of obligations for that appropriation has expired, to the appropriations of a fund that is currently available to the Secretary for the same purpose. Amounts so credited shall be merged with amounts in such fund or account and shall be available for the same purposes, and subject to the same conditions and limitations, as amounts in such fund or account.
                     
                  
                  
                     (d)
                     Description of property
                     The exact acreage and legal description of the parcel of real property to be conveyed under subsection (a) shall be determined by surveys satisfactory to the Secretary of the Army.
                  
                  
                     (e)
                     Additional terms and conditions
                     The Secretary of the Army may require such additional terms and conditions in connection with the conveyance under subsection (a) as the Secretary considers appropriate to protect the interests of the United States.
                  
               
               
                  2842.
                  LAND CONVEYANCE, RIVERDALE PARK, MARYLAND
                  
                     (a)
                     Conveyance authorized
                     The Secretary of the Army may convey, without consideration, to the town of Riverdale Park, Maryland, all right, title, and interest of the United States in and to the real property described in subsection (b), for the purposes of—
                     
                        (1)
                        creating a new municipal and community center; and
                     
                     
                        (2)
                        replacing impervious surfaces.
                     
                  
                  
                     (b)
                     Property
                     The property to be conveyed under this section consists of approximately 6.63 acres of real property, including improvements on such real property, located at 6601 Baltimore Avenue, Riverdale Park, Maryland.
                  
                  
                     (c)
                     Reversionary interest
                     
                        (1)
                        In general
                        If the Secretary determines at any time that the real property conveyed under subsection (a) is not being used in accordance with the purpose specified in such subsection, all right, title, and interest in and to the property shall revert, at the discretion of the Secretary, to the United States.
                     
                     
                        (2)
                        Determination
                        A determination by the Secretary under paragraph (1) shall be made on the record after an opportunity for a hearing.
                     
                  
               
               
                  2843.
                  TRANSFER AUTHORITY, MARE ISLAND NAVAL SHIPYARD, VALLEJO, CALIFORNIA
                  
                     (a)
                     In general
                     With respect to a transfer of real property located at the former Mare Island Naval Shipyard, Vallejo, California, to the City of Vallejo (referred to in this section as the City), made on or after the date of the enactment of this Act, the Secretary of the Navy may enter into an agreement with the City and the California State Lands Commission (referred to in this section as SLC) if such agreement includes the following terms:
                     
                        (1)
                        That the City, SLC, and the Governor of California agree to a deferral of the completion of all environmental remedial actions necessary to protect human health and the environment with respect to the real property until after the date of the transfer.
                     
                     
                        (2)
                        That additional remedial action found to be necessary after the date of such transfer shall be conducted by the Secretary.
                     
                     
                        (3)
                        That the Secretary shall have access to the property after the date of such transfer for the purpose of conducting such remedial actions.
                     
                  
                  
                     (b)
                     Transfer
                     If the Secretary of the Navy issues a determination that the real property described in subsection (a) is suitable for transfer to the City, such transfer may be accomplished using a quitclaim deed or other legal instrument and upon terms and conditions mutually satisfactory to the Secretary and the City that include—
                     
                        (1)
                        the terms described in paragraphs (1) through (3) of subsection (a); and
                     
                     
                        (2)
                        such additional terms and conditions as the Secretary considers appropriate to protect the interests of the United States.
                     
                  
                  
                     (c)
                     Description of property
                     The exact acreage and legal description of the property to be transferred under subsection (a) shall be determined by a survey satisfactory to the Secretary of the Navy.
                  
               
               
                  2844.
                  RELEASE OF INTERESTS RETAINED IN CAMP JOSEPH T. ROBINSON, ARKANSAS, FOR USE OF SUCH LAND AS A TRAINING AREA FOR THE ARKANSAS DEPARTMENT OF PUBLIC SAFETY
                  
                     (a)
                     Release of retained interests
                     
                        (1)
                        In general
                        With respect to a parcel of land at Camp Joseph T. Robinson, Arkansas, consisting of approximately 241.33 acres that lies in a part of section 2, township 2 north, range 12 west, Pulaski County, Arkansas, and comprising a portion of the property conveyed by the United States to the State of Arkansas for training of the National Guard and for other military purposes pursuant to An Act authorizing the transfer of part of Camp Joseph T. Robinson to the State of Arkansas, approved June 30, 1950 (64 Stat. 311, chapter 429), the Secretary of the Army may release the terms and conditions imposed, and reversionary interests retained, by the United States under section 2 of such Act, and the right to reenter and use the property retained by the United States under section 3 of such Act.
                     
                     
                        (2)
                        Impact on other rights or interests
                        The release of terms and conditions and retained interests under paragraph (1) with respect to the parcel described in such paragraph shall not be construed to alter the rights or interests retained by the United States with respect to the remainder of the real property conveyed to the State of Arkansas under the Act described in such paragraph.
                     
                  
                  
                     (b)
                     Instrument of release and description of property
                     
                        (1)
                        In general
                        The Secretary of the Army may execute and file in the appropriate office a deed of release, amended deed, or other appropriate instrument reflecting the release of terms and conditions and retained interests under subsection (a).
                     
                     
                        (2)
                        Legal description
                        The exact acreage and legal description of the property described in subsection (a) shall be determined by a survey satisfactory to the Secretary of the Army.
                     
                  
                  
                     (c)
                     Conditions on release and reversionary interest
                     
                        (1)
                        Use as Arkansas department of public safety training area and reversionary interest
                        
                           (A)
                           Arkansas department of public safety training area
                           The State of Arkansas may use the parcel of land described in subsection (a)(1) only for Arkansas Department of Public Safety, or a division of the Arkansas Department of Public Safety, led training and related activities.
                        
                        
                           (B)
                           Reversionary interest
                           If the Secretary of the Army determines at any time that the parcel of land described in subsection (a)(1) is not being used in accordance with the purpose specified in subparagraph (A), all right, title, and interest in and to the land, including any improvements thereto, shall, at the option of the Secretary, revert to and become the property of the United States, and the United States shall have the right of immediate entry onto such parcel.
                        
                     
                     
                        (2)
                        Additional terms and conditions
                        The Secretary of the Army may require in the instrument of release such additional terms and conditions in connection with the release of terms and conditions and retained interests under subsection (a) as the Secretary considers appropriate to protect the interests of the United States.
                     
                  
                  
                     (d)
                     Reimbursements. payment of administrative costs
                     
                        (1)
                        Payment required
                        
                           (A)
                           In general
                           The Secretary of the Army may require the State of Arkansas to cover costs to be incurred by the Secretary, or to reimburse the Secretary for costs incurred by the Secretary, to carry out the release of terms and conditions and retained interests under subsection (a), including survey costs, costs related to environmental documentation, and other administrative costs related to the release.
                        
                        
                           (B)
                           Refund of amounts
                           If amounts paid to the Secretary by the State of Arkansas in advance under subparagraph (A) exceed the costs actually incurred by the Secretary to carry out the release, the Secretary shall refund the excess amount to the State.
                        
                     
                     
                        (2)
                        Treatment of amounts received
                        Amounts received under paragraph (1) as reimbursement for costs incurred by the Secretary to carry out the release of terms and conditions and retained interests under subsection (a) shall be credited to the fund or account that was used to cover the costs incurred by the Secretary in carrying out the release. Amounts so credited shall be merged with amounts in such fund or account and shall be available for the same purposes, and subject to the same conditions and limitations, as amounts in such fund or account.
                     
                  
               
               
                  2845.
                  LAND CONVEYANCE, FORT HUACHUCA, SIERRA VISTA, ARIZONA
                  
                     (a)
                     Conveyance Authorized
                     
                        (1)
                        In general
                        The Secretary of the Army may convey, without consideration, to the City of Sierra Vista, Arizona (in this section referred to as the “City”), all right, title, and interest of the United States in and to a parcel of real property, including any improvements thereon, consisting of approximately 203 acres, comprising a portion of Fort Huachuca, Arizona, for the purpose of compatible development of the municipal airport located in the City.
                     
                     
                        (2)
                        Continuation of existing easements, restrictions, and covenants
                        The conveyance of the property under paragraph (1) shall be subject to any easement, restriction, or covenant of record applicable to the property and in existence on the date of the enactment of this section.
                     
                  
                  
                     (b)
                     Revisionary Interest
                     
                        (1)
                        In general
                        If the Secretary of the Army determines at any time that the real property conveyed under subsection (a) is not being used in accordance with the purpose of the conveyance specified in such subsection, all right, title, and interest in and to the property, including any improvements thereto, may, at the option of the Secretary, revert to and become the property of the United States, and the United States may have the right of immediate entry onto such property.
                     
                     
                        (2)
                        Determination
                        A determination by the Secretary of the Army under paragraph (1) shall be made on the record after an opportunity for a hearing.
                     
                  
                  
                     (c)
                     Payment of Costs of Conveyance
                     
                        (1)
                        Payment required
                        The Secretary of the Army shall require the City to cover all costs (except costs for environmental remediation of the property) to be incurred by the Secretary, or to reimburse the Secretary for costs incurred by the Secretary, to carry out the conveyance under subsection (a), including costs for environmental and real estate due diligence and any other administrative costs related to the conveyance.
                     
                     
                        (2)
                        Refund of excess amounts
                        If amounts collected by the Secretary of the Army from the City under paragraph (1) in advance exceed the costs actually incurred by the Secretary to carry out the conveyance under subsection (a), the Secretary shall refund the excess amount to the City.
                     
                  
                  
                     (d)
                     Limitation on source of funds
                     The City may not use Federal funds to cover any portion of the costs required to be paid by the City under this section.
                  
                  
                     (e)
                     Description of Property
                     The exact acreage and legal description of the property to be conveyed under subsection (a) shall be determined by a survey satisfactory to the Secretary of the Army.
                  
                  
                     (f)
                     Additional Terms and Conditions
                     The Secretary of the Army may require such additional terms and conditions in connection with the conveyance under subsection (a) as the Secretary considers appropriate to protect the interests of the United States.
                  
               
               
                  2846.
                  REMOVAL OF USE CONDITIONS AND CONDITIONS ON REVERSION FOR THE FORMER ARMY AND NAVY GENERAL HOSPITAL, HOT SPRINGS NATIONAL PARK, HOT SPRINGS, ARKANSAS
                  
                     (a)
                     Removal of use conditions
                     Section 3(a) of Public Law 86–323 (73 Stat. 594; Sept. 21, 1959) is amended by striking as a vocational rehabilitation center or for other public health or educational purposes and inserting for appropriate purposes, as determined by the Governor of the State of Arkansas.
                  
                  
                     (b)
                     Conditions on reversion
                     
                        (1)
                        In general
                        Notwithstanding the provisions contained in section 3 of Public Law 86–323 (73 Stat. 594; Sept. 21, 1959) any reversionary interest retained by the United States in the Covered Property may be extinguished by occurrence of the following conditions:
                        
                           (A)
                           Not later than 3 years after the date of enactment of this Act, the Governor of the State of Arkansas submits to the Secretary of the Army a written request to extinguish any reversionary or other future interest in the surface rights held by the United States in the covered property.
                        
                        
                           (B)
                           The Secretary of the Army, in consultation with the Administrator of the General Services Administration and the Secretary of the Interior, concurs in writing with the said request.
                        
                     
                     
                        (2)
                        Quitclaim deed
                        If the conditions described in paragraph (1) are met, the Secretary of the Army shall extinguish by quitclaim deed any reversionary or other future interest in the surface rights held by the United States in the covered property.
                     
                     
                        (3)
                        Rights and interests reserved to the United States
                        In exercising the authority under this section, the Secretary of the Army may not convey or extinguish any interests reserved to the United States—
                        
                           (A)
                           pursuant to section 2 of Public Law 86–323 (73 Stat. 594; Sept. 21, 1959) in—
                           
                              (i)
                              all mineral rights (including gas and oil), together with necessary rights of ingress, egress, and surface use; or
                           
                           
                              (ii)
                              thermal waters or other hot waters, together with necessary rights of ingress, egress, and surface use; and
                           
                        
                        
                           (B)
                           relating to the location, installation, and relocation of utility facilities for such mineral rights, thermal waters, or other hot waters; and
                        
                        
                           (C)
                           in the conditions set forth in paragraphs (2) and (3) of the Deed of Conveyance.
                        
                     
                     
                        (4)
                        Reversion
                        If the Governor of the State of Arkansas does not submit a request described in subsection (b)(2) before the deadline in such subsection, all right, title and interest held by the State of Arkansas in the covered property shall revert to the United States in accordance with section 3 of Public Law 86–323 (73 Stat. 594; Sept. 21, 1959).
                     
                  
                  
                     (c)
                     Definition
                     In this section:
                     
                        (1)
                        The term covered property means the real property conveyed by the Deed of Conveyance pursuant to Public Law 86–323 (73 Stat. 594; Sept. 21, 1959).
                     
                     
                        (2)
                        The term Deed of Conveyance means the quitclaim deed between the United States of America and the State of Arkansas dated March 10, 1960, recorded in the land records of the County of Garland, State of Arkansas, at book 480, page 77.
                     
                  
               
               
                  2847.
                  LAND CONVEYANCE AND AUTHORIZATION FOR INTERIM LEASE, DEFENSE FUEL SUPPORT POINT SAN PEDRO, LOS ANGELES, CALIFORNIA
                  
                     (a)
                     Conveyance authorized
                     The Secretary of the Navy (in this section referred to as the Secretary), may convey to the city of Los Angeles or the city of Lomita, at a cost less than fair market value, all right, title, and interest of the United States in and to parcels of real property, including any improvements therein and thereon, known as the ballfields and the firing range at Naval Weapons Station Seal Beach, Defense Fuel Support Point, San Pedro, California, as further described in subsection (b), for the purposes of permitting the city of Los Angeles or the city of Lomita (as appropriate) to use such conveyed parcel of real property for park and recreational activities or law enforcement affiliated purposes. A conveyance under this subsection is subject to valid existing rights.
                  
                  
                     (b)
                     Description of property
                     The parcels of real property that may be conveyed under subsection (a) consists of the following:
                     
                        (1)
                        The City of Lomita Ballfield Parcel consisting of approximately 5.7 acres.
                     
                     
                        (2)
                        The City of Los Angeles Ballfield Parcels consisting of approximately 15.3 acres.
                     
                     
                        (3)
                        The firing range located at 2981 North Gaffey Street, San Pedro, California, consisting of approximately 3.2 acres.
                     
                  
                  
                     (c)
                     Interim lease
                     Until such time as any parcel of real property described in subsection (b) is conveyed to the city of Los Angeles or the city of Lomita (as appropriate), the Secretary of the Navy may lease such parcel or a portion of such parcel to either the city of Los Angeles or the city of Lomita at no cost for a term up to three years. If fee conveyance described in subsection (a) is not completed within the period of the lease term with respect to such parcel, the Secretary shall have no further obligation to make any part of such parcel available for use by the city of Los Angeles or the city of Lomita.
                  
                  
                     (d)
                     Consideration
                     
                        (1)
                        Consideration required
                        As consideration for a conveyance under subsection (a), the city of Los Angeles or the city of Lomita (as appropriate) shall pay to the Secretary of the Navy an amount determined by the Secretary, which may consist of cash payment, in-kind consideration as described under paragraph (2), or a combination thereof.
                     
                     
                        (2)
                        In-kind consideration
                        In-kind consideration provided by the city of Los Angeles or the city of Lomita (as appropriate) under this subsection may include—
                        
                           (A)
                           the acquisition, construction, provision, improvement, maintenance, repair, or restoration (including environmental restoration), or combination thereof, of any property, facilities, or infrastructure with proximity to Naval Weapons Station Seal Beach, that the Secretary considers acceptable; or
                        
                        
                           (B)
                           the delivery of services relating to the needs of Naval Weapons Station Seal Beach that the Secretary considers acceptable.
                        
                     
                     
                        (3)
                        Treatment of amounts received for conveyance
                        Cash payments received under paragraph (1) as reimbursement for costs incurred by the Secretary to carry out a conveyance under subsection (a) shall be credited to the fund or account used to cover the costs incurred by the Secretary in carrying out the conveyance or to an appropriate fund or account currently available to the Secretary for the purposes for which the costs were paid. Amounts so credited shall be merged with amounts in such fund or account and shall be available for the same purposes, and to the same conditions and limitations, as amounts in such fund or account.
                     
                     
                        (4)
                        Payment of costs of conveyance
                        The Secretary shall require the city of Los Angeles or the city of Lomita (as appropriate) to cover costs (except costs for environmental remediation of the property) to be incurred by the Secretary, or to reimburse the Secretary for such costs incurred by the Secretary, to carry out a conveyance under subsection (a), including costs for environmental and real estate due diligence and any other administrative costs related to the conveyance and lease execution.
                     
                     
                        (5)
                        Refund of excess amounts
                        If amounts are collected from the city of Los Angeles or the city of Lomita under paragraph (4) in advance of the Secretary incurring the actual costs, and the amount collected exceeds the costs actually incurred by the Secretary to carry out a conveyance under subsection (a), the Secretary shall refund the excess amount to the city of Los Angeles or the city of Lomita (as appropriate).
                     
                  
                  
                     (e)
                     Valuation
                     The values of the property interests to be conveyed by the Secretary described in subsection (a) shall be determined by an independent appraiser selected by the Secretary and in accordance with the Uniform Standards of Professional Appraisal Practice.
                  
                  
                     (f)
                     Condition of conveyance
                     A conveyance under subsection (a) shall be subject to all existing easements, restrictions, and covenants of record and conditioned upon the following:
                     
                        (1)
                        The parcels of real property described in paragraphs (1) and (2) of subsection (b) shall be used solely for park and recreational activities, which may include ancillary uses such as vending and restrooms.
                     
                     
                        (2)
                        The parcel of real property described in subsection (b)(3) shall be used solely for law enforcement affiliated purposes.
                     
                     
                        (3)
                        The city of Los Angeles or the city of Lomita (as appropriate) may not use Federal funds to cover any portion of the amounts required by subsection (d) to be paid.
                     
                  
                  
                     (g)
                     Exclusion of requirements for prior screening
                     Section 2696(b) of title 10, United States Code, and the requirements under title V of the McKinney-Vento Homeless Assistance Act (Public Law 101–645; 41 U.S.C. 11411) relating to prior screenings shall not apply to a conveyance under subsection (a) or the grant of interim lease authorized under subsection (c).
                  
                  
                     (h)
                     Reversionary interest
                     If the Secretary determines at any time that a parcel of real property conveyed under subsection (a) is not being used in accordance with the purpose of the conveyance specified in this section, all right, title, and interest in and to the land, including the improvements thereto, shall, at the option of the Secretary, revert to and become the property of the United States, and the United States shall have the right of immediate entry onto such real property. A determination by the Secretary under this subsection shall be made on the record after an opportunity for a hearing.
                  
                  
                     (i)
                     Conveyance agreement
                     A conveyance of land under subsection (a) shall be accomplished using a quitclaim deed or other legal instrument and upon terms and conditions mutually satisfactory to the Secretary and the city of Los Angeles or the city of Lomita (as appropriate), including such additional terms and conditions as the Secretary considers appropriate to protect the interests of the United States.
                  
                  
                     (j)
                     Additional terms
                     The Secretary may require such additional terms and conditions in connection with a conveyance under subsection (a) as the Secretary considers appropriate to protect the interests of the United States.
                  
                  
                     (k)
                     Savings clause
                     Nothing in this section affects the application of the Comprehensive Environmental Response, Compensation, and Liability Act of 1980 (42 U.S.C. 9601 et seq.).
                  
               
            
            
               E
               Other Matters
               
                  2851.
                  EXTENSION OF PROHIBITION ON JOINT USE OF HOMESTEAD AIR RESERVE BASE WITH CIVIL AVIATION
                  Section 2874 of the James M. Inhofe National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2023 (Public Law 117–263; 136 Stat. 3014) is amended by striking On or before September 30, 2026, and inserting On or before September 30, 2036.
               
               
                  2852.
                  SCHEDULE OF REPAIRS AT NAVAL AIR STATION, PENSACOLA, FLORIDA
                  
                     (a)
                     Schedule
                     The Secretary of the Navy shall develop and implement a plan for repair or replacement of facilities at Naval Air Station Pensacola that the Secretary determines are damaged by Hurricane Sally.
                  
                  
                     (b)
                     Elements
                     The plan required under subsection (a) shall include the following:
                     
                        (1)
                        An estimate of the cost and schedule for—
                        
                           (A)
                           the repair of Hangar 3260; and
                        
                        
                           (B)
                           a military construction project (as defined in section 2801 of title 10, United States Code) to replace Hangar 3260 and other infrastructure at Naval Air Station, Pensacola, Florida, that the Secretary of the Navy determines are damaged by Hurricane Sally.
                        
                     
                     
                        (2)
                        An assessment that compares the estimated cost and schedule under subparagraph (A) of paragraph (1) to the estimated cost and schedule under subparagraph (B) of such subparagraph. 
                     
                     
                        (3)
                        Any planned demolition projects necessary to support future military construction.
                     
                     
                        (4)
                        An assessment of how the repair and replacement schedules for facilities at Naval Air Station Pensacola that the Secretary determines are damaged by Hurricane Sally support current and future operational requirements at the naval air station.
                     
                  
                  
                     (c)
                     Limitation
                     Of the amounts authorized to be appropriated by this Act or otherwise made available for fiscal year 2025 for the Office of the Secretary of the Navy for travel expenses, not more than 80 percent may be obligated or expended until the Secretary of the Navy submits to the congressional defense committees the schedule required by subsection (a).
                  
                  
                     (d)
                     Definitions
                     In this section, the terms facility and military construction project have the meanings given such terms in section 2801 of title 10, United States Code.
                  
               
               
                  2853.
                  MODIFICATION OF REQUIREMENTS
                  Section 2889 of the National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2024 is amended—
                  
                     (1)
                     by inserting or 2025 after fiscal year 2024;
                  
                  
                     (2)
                     by striking June 30, 2024, when; and
                  
                  
                     (3)
                     by striking shall complete and inserting have completed.
                  
               
               
                  2854.
                  DEPARTMENT OF DEFENSE POLICY RELATING TO CONTRACTORS FOR MILITARY CONSTRUCTION PROJECTS
                  The Secretary of Defense shall issue a policy to require that, when considering an offer for a contract for work on a military construction project, each Secretary of a military department shall consider—
                  
                     (1)
                     the proximity of the proposed contractors for such contract to the location of performance of such contract; and
                  
                  
                     (2)
                     the use of contractors and subcontractor that are considered local for the performance of such contract.
                  
               
               
                  2855.
                  SURVEY AND PROCEDURES FOR MUNITIONS OF EXPLOSIVE CONCERN ON MILITARY INSTALLATIONS IN GUAM
                  
                     (a)
                     Survey required
                     Not later than 180 days after the date of the enactment of this Act, the Secretary of Defense shall conduct a survey of the military installations on Guam, using available technologies to characterize the real property of such military installations as being at high, medium, or low risk for containing munitions of explosive concern.
                  
                  
                     (b)
                     Procedures required
                     Not later than 180 days after the date of completion of the survey, the Secretary shall issue procedures for such real property characterized as low- and medium-risk to expedite military construction projects relating to such real property to the maximum extent as is safely practicable.
                  
                  
                     (c)
                     Briefing required
                     Not later than 30 days after the date of issuance of the procedures described in subsection (b), Secretary shall provide to the Committees on Armed Services of the Senate and the House of Representatives a briefing on the results of the survey conducted under subsection (a), the procedures described in subsection (b), and how such procedures will expedite the completion of military construction projects on Guam.
                  
               
               
                  2856.
                  MARKET SURVEY OF DOMESTIC SUPPLIERS OF SAND AND GRAVEL FOR MARINE CONCRETE
                  
                     (a)
                     Market survey required
                     Not later than 90 days after the date of the enactment of this Act, the Secretary of Defense shall conduct a market survey of domestic entities that—
                     
                        (1)
                        are capable of supplying sand and gravel that conforms with the standards found in the Unified Facilities Guide Criteria 03–31–29 (relating to marine concrete with service life modeling); and
                     
                     
                        (2)
                        have the associated marine logistical capacity to load and transport the such sand and gravel to the geographic area covered by the United States Indo-Pacific Command.
                     
                  
                  
                     (b)
                     Report to congress
                     Not later than 30 days after completing the market survey under subsection (a), the Secretary of Defense shall submit to the congressional defense committees a report that includes the results of the market survey and an assessment of whether there is access to sufficient domestic sources of sand and gravel to meet national security and military construction requirements.
                  
               
               
                  2857.
                  SURVEY OF CERTAIN COUNTIES FOR PLACEMENT OF FACILITIES
                  
                     (a)
                     Survey required
                     Not later than one year afer the date of the enactment of this Act, the Secretary of Defense shall submit to Congress the results of a survey of the counties described in subsection (b) to assess potential placement of operational, training, or other facilities for use by the military departments in such counties.
                  
                  
                     (b)
                     Counties described
                     The counties described in this subsection are located in the State of North Carolina and are as follows:
                     
                        (1)
                        Buncombe County.
                     
                     
                        (2)
                        Cherokee County.
                     
                     
                        (3)
                        Clay County.
                     
                     
                        (4)
                        Graham County.
                     
                     
                        (5)
                        Haywood County.
                     
                     
                        (6)
                        Henderson County.
                     
                     
                        (7)
                        Jackson County.
                     
                     
                        (8)
                        Macon County.
                     
                     
                        (9)
                        Madison County.
                     
                     
                        (10)
                        McDowell County.
                     
                     
                        (11)
                        Polk County.
                     
                     
                        (12)
                        Rutherford County.
                     
                     
                        (13)
                        Swain County.
                     
                     
                        (14)
                        Transylvania County.
                     
                     
                        (15)
                        Yancey County.
                     
                  
                  
                     (c)
                     Survey requirements
                     The survey required under subsection (a) shall include the following:
                     
                        (1)
                        An assessment of the mountainous and varied terrains in the areas described in subsection (b) and the feasibility of programs that use this geography, including programs for basic survival skills, dam and reservoir exercises, whitewater rafting exercises, thick vegetation exercises, air drop exercises, and mountainous warfare exercises.
                     
                     
                        (2)
                        An evaluation of defense assets located in the State of North Carolina and the lack of defense assets in the area described in subsection (b).
                     
                  
                  
                     (d)
                     Survey considerations
                     The survey shall assesses the feasibility of the placement of operational, training, and other facilities as follows:
                     
                        (1)
                        Consideration of relevant civilian assets in the area described in subsection (b).
                     
                     
                        (2)
                        Consideration of assets of Department of Defense contractors in such area.
                     
                     
                        (3)
                        Proximity of such to current defense assets, including Fort Liberty.
                     
                     
                        (4)
                        Consideration of the geographic similarities of such area to geographic regions critical to United States defense policy, including the Indo-Pacific region, Europe, the Middle East, and Africa.
                     
                  
               
               
                  2858.
                  STUDY ON CERTAIN GRANTS AWARDED TO SUPPORT INVESTMENTS IN CERTAIN CHILD CARE FACILITIES UNDER THE DEFENSE COMMUNITY INFRASTRUCTURE PROGRAM
                  
                     (a)
                     In general
                     The Secretary of Defense shall carry out a study on each grant awarded under the defense community infrastructure program established under section 2391(d) of title 10, United States Code for supporting investments in child care facilities in areas in close proximity to military installations (as defined in section 2801 of title 10, United States Code).
                  
                  
                     (b)
                     Report
                     Not later than 180 days after the date of enactment of this Act, the Secretary of Defense shall submit to the Committees on Armed Services of the House of Representatives and the Senate a report that includes—
                     
                        (1)
                        a description and total value of each grant awarded under such program to support investments in child care facilities in areas in close proximity to military installations; 
                     
                     
                        (2)
                        a list of best practices learned from grants awarded before the date of the enactment of this Act under such program for investments in child care facilities;
                     
                     
                        (3)
                        a description of barriers, if any, that prevent the Secretary from awarding grants under the program to support investments in child care facilities in areas in close proximity to military installations on a more frequent basis; and
                     
                     
                        (4)
                        recommendations to increase the number of grants awarded under such program to support investments in child care facilities in areas in close proximity to military installations.
                     
                  
               
               
                  2859.
                  REQUIREMENT TO MAINTAIN ACCESS TO CATEGORY 3 SUBTERRANEAN TRAINING FACILITY
                  
                     (a)
                     Requirement to maintain access
                     The Secretary of Defense shall ensure that the Department of Defense maintains access to a covered category 3 subterranean training facility on a continuing basis.
                  
                  
                     (b)
                     Authority to enter into lease
                     The Secretary of Defense may enter into a short-term lease with a provider of a covered category 3 subterranean training facility for purposes of compliance with subsection (a).
                  
                  
                     (c)
                     Covered category 3 subterranean training facility defined
                     In this section, the term covered category 3 subterranean training facility means a category 3 subterranean training facility (as defined in section 2869 of the National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2023 (Public Law 117–263)) that is—
                     
                        (1)
                        operational on or before the date of the enactment of this Act; and
                     
                     
                        (2)
                        deemed safe for use on such date.
                     
                  
               
               
                  2860.
                  QUARTERLY REPORT ON INFILTRATIONS OF CERTAIN DEPARTMENT OF DEFENSE PROPERTY BY FOREIGN ACTORS
                  
                     (a)
                     In general
                     Not less frequently than quarterly, the Secretary of Defense shall submit to the appropriate congressional committees a report on instances of infiltration, or attempted infiltration, of a military installation, facility, or real property under the jurisdiction of the Department of Defense by a foreign actor during the period covered by the report. 
                  
                  
                     (b)
                     Elements
                     Each report required by subsection (a) shall include—
                     
                        (1)
                        a summary of each instance of infiltration or attempted infiltration;
                     
                     
                        (2)
                        an identification of the foreign actor the Secretary determines is responsible for such infiltration or attempted infiltration; and
                     
                     
                        (3)
                        with respect to each foreign actor included in such report, an statement of—
                        
                           (A)
                           immigration status, if any;
                        
                        
                           (B)
                           country of origin;
                        
                        
                           (C)
                           method and date of entry into the United States, if known;
                        
                        
                           (D)
                           criminal background, if known; and
                        
                        
                           (E)
                           any other information obtained during the applicable Department of Defense investigation that the Secretary of Defense determines appropriate.
                        
                     
                  
                  
                     (c)
                     Definitions
                     In this section:
                     
                        (1)
                        The term appropriate congressional committees means—
                        
                           (A)
                           the Committees on Armed Services of the House of Representatives and the Senate;
                        
                        
                           (B)
                           the Committee on Foreign Affairs of the House of Representatives;
                        
                        
                           (C)
                           the Committee on Foreign Relations of the Senate;
                        
                        
                           (D)
                           the Committee on Homeland Security of the House of Representatives;
                        
                        
                           (E)
                           the Committee on Homeland Security and Governmental Relations of the Senate;
                        
                        
                           (F)
                           the Select Committee on Intelligence of the Senate;
                        
                        
                           (G)
                           the Permanent Select Committee on Intelligence of the House of Representatives; and
                        
                        
                           (H)
                           the Committee on Oversight and Accountability of the House of Representatives.
                        
                     
                     
                        (2)
                        The term foreign actor means an individual who is not a citizen or national of the United States.
                     
                     
                        (3)
                        The term infiltration includes, with respect to a military installation, facility, or real property under the jurisdiction of the Department of Defense, unauthorized photo or video recording.
                     
                  
               
               
                  2861.
                  DESIGNATION OF CREECH AIR FORCE BASE, NEVADA, AS REMOTE OR ISOLATED INSTALLATION
                  The Secretary of Defense shall designate Creech Air Force Base located at Indian Springs Nevada, as a remote or isolated installation. 
               
               
                  2862.
                  FEASIBILITY STUDY BY THE SECRETARY OF DEFENSE ON REPLICATING THE ARMY FUTURE SOLDIER PREP COURSE THROUGH THE OTHER SERVICE BRANCHES
                  Not later than 180 days after the date of the enactment of this Act, the Secretary of Defense shall submit to Congress a feasibility study on replicating the Army Future Soldier Prep Course through the other services that contains the following:
                  
                     (1)
                     A cost estimate for each of the services including—
                     
                        (A)
                        Any military construction or Facilities sustainment, restoration and modernization costs;
                     
                     
                        (B)
                        Additional personnel costs; and
                     
                     
                        (C)
                        Additional operations and maintenance costs. 
                     
                  
                  
                     (2)
                     Existing bases for each service that could host such a program.
                  
               
               
                  2863.
                  AUTHORIZATION OF ASSISTANCE TO EXPEDITE CERTAIN MILITARY CONSTRUCTION PROJECTS LOCATED IN GUAM
                  
                     (a)
                     In general
                     To expedite military construction projects in Guam intended to improve the defense of Guam and the Indo-Pacific region, each Secretary of a military department may provide grants, conclude cooperative agreements, and supplement other Federal funds to regulatory agencies located in Guam that such Secretary determines appropriate, including—
                     
                        (1)
                        the Guam Environmental Protection Agency; and
                     
                     
                        (2)
                        the United States Fish and Wildlife Service.
                     
                  
                  
                     (b)
                     Elements
                     Each agreement under subsection (a) may include—
                     
                        (1)
                        the provision of Department of Defense technical assistance to regulatory agencies responsible for the timely completion of military construction projects; and 
                     
                     
                        (2)
                        the use of Department of Defense personnel to perform conservation activities for which the regulatory agency is responsible.
                     
                  
                  
                     (c)
                     Military construction project defined
                     In this section, the term military construction project has the meaning given such term in section 2801 of title 10, United States Code. 
                  
               
               
                  2864.
                  BRIEFING ON INSTANCES OF ATTEMPTED BREACHES OF DEPARTMENT OF DEFENSE MILITARY INSTALLATIONS REQUIRED
                  
                     (a)
                     In general
                     The Secretary of Defense shall provide to Congress a briefing on any instance of an attempted breach of a military installation under the jurisdiction of the Department of Defense during the period beginning on January 1, 2021, and ending on the date of the provision of such briefing.
                  
                  
                     (b)
                     Elements
                     Each briefing under subsection shall include, with respect to each perpetrator of an attempted breach described in such subsection, a statement of the applicable immigration status and citizenship status.
                  
               
               
                  2865.
                  REPORT ON LAND USE PRACTICES AROUND MILITARY INSTALLATIONS IN THE FREELY ASSOCIATED STATES
                  Not later than 180 days after the date of the enactment of this Act, the Assistant Secretary of Defense for Energy, Installations, and Environment shall submit to the congressional defense committees a report that includes the following:
                  
                     (1)
                     An assessment of land use policies and encroachment risks near military installations (as defined in section 2801 of title 10, United States Code) located in the Freely Associated States, real property located in the Freely Associated States used to support the Armed Forces, and real property located in the Freely Associated States that may be used to support the Armed Forces during the five-year period following the date of submission of the report.
                  
                  
                     (2)
                     An assessment of the feasibility and advisability of establishing a coalition to include representatives from Federal agencies, the governments of the Freely Associated States, nongovernmental organizations, and landowners and land managers in the Freely Associated States to advance sustainable land use practices around military installations that would assist in efforts to prevent encroachment and promote conservation.
                  
               
            
         
      
      
         C
         DEPARTMENT OF ENERGY NATIONAL SECURITY AUTHORIZATIONS AND OTHER AUTHORIZATIONS
         
            XXXI
            DEPARTMENT OF ENERGY NATIONAL SECURITY PROGRAMS
            
               A
               National Security Programs and Authorizations
               
                  3101.
                  NATIONAL NUCLEAR SECURITY ADMINISTRATION
                  
                     (a)
                     Authorization of appropriations
                     Funds are hereby authorized to be appropriated to the Department of Energy for fiscal year 2025 for the activities of the National Nuclear Security Administration in carrying out programs as specified in the funding table in section 4701.
                  
                  
                     (b)
                     Authorization of new plant projects
                     From funds referred to in subsection (a) that are available for carrying out plant projects, the Secretary of Energy may carry out new plant projects for the National Nuclear Security Administration as follows:
                     
                        (1)
                        Project 25–D–511, PULSE New Access, Nevada National Security Site, Mercury, Nevada, $25,000,000.
                     
                     
                        (2)
                        Project 25–D–510, Plutonium Mission Safety and Quality Building, Los Alamos National Laboratory, Los Alamos, New Mexico, $48,500,000.
                     
                     
                        (3)
                        Project 25–D–530, Naval Examination Acquisition Project, Naval Reactors Facility, Idaho Falls, Idaho: $45,000,000.
                     
                  
               
               
                  3102.
                  DEFENSE ENVIRONMENTAL CLEANUP
                  Funds are hereby authorized to be appropriated to the Department of Energy for fiscal year 2025 for defense environmental cleanup activities in carrying out programs as specified in the funding table in section 4701.
               
               
                  3103.
                  OTHER DEFENSE ACTIVITIES
                  Funds are hereby authorized to be appropriated to the Department of Energy for fiscal year 2025 for other defense activities in carrying out programs as specified in the funding table in section 4701.
               
               
                  3104.
                  NUCLEAR ENERGY
                  Funds are hereby authorized to be appropriated to the Department of Energy for fiscal year 2025 for nuclear energy as specified in the funding table in section 4701.
               
            
            
               B
               Program Authorizations, Restrictions, and Limitations
               
                  3111.
                  PROHIBITION ON ADMITTANCE TO NATIONAL SECURITY LABORATORIES AND NUCLEAR WEAPONS PRODUCTION FACILITIES
                  Section 4502 of the Atomic Energy Defense Act (50 U.S.C. 2652) is amended—
                  
                     (1)
                     in subsection (a), by inserting , subject to subsection (b), after unless; 
                  
                  
                     (2)
                     by redesignating subsections (b) and (c) as subsections (c) and (e), respectively; and
                  
                  
                     (3)
                     by inserting after subsection (a) the following new subsection:
                     
                        
                           (b)
                           Prohibition on admittance
                           
                              (1)
                              In general
                              Except as provided in paragraph (2), the Secretary of Energy may not admit to any facility of a national security laboratory or any nuclear weapons production facility, other than an area accessible to the general public, any individual who is a citizen or agent of the People’s Republic of China or the Russian Federation.
                           
                           
                              (2)
                              Waiver
                              The Secretary of Energy may waive the prohibition under paragraph (1) with respect to an individual if, not later than 30 days prior to admitting such individual to a facility described in such paragraph, the Secretary certifies to the appropriate congressional committees that—
                              
                                 (A)
                                 the admittance of such individual to the facility is in the national security interests of the United States;
                              
                              
                                 (B)
                                 no classified or restricted data will be revealed to such individual in connection with the individual’s admittance to the facility; and
                              
                              
                                 (C)
                                 a background review has been completed with respect to such individual.
                              
                           
                        
                        ; 
                     
                  
                  
                     (4)
                     by inserting after subsection (c), as so redesignated, the following:
                     
                        
                           (d)
                           Rule of construction
                           Nothing in this section shall be construed to prohibit a citizen or lawful permanent resident of the United States from accessing a national security laboratory or nuclear weapons production facility.
                        
                        ; and
                     
                  
                  
                     (5)
                     in subsection (e), as so redesignated—
                     
                        (A)
                        by redesignating paragraphs (1) and (2) as paragraphs (2) and (3), respectively; and
                     
                     
                        (B)
                        by inserting before paragraph (2), as so redesignated, the following:
                        
                           
                              (1)
                              The term appropriate congressional committees means—
                              
                                 (A)
                                 the Committee on Appropriations, the Committee on Armed Services, and the Committee on Energy and Natural Resources of the Senate; and
                              
                              
                                 (B)
                                 the Committee on Appropriations, the Committee on Armed Services, and the Committee on Energy and Commerce of the House of Representatives.
                              
                           
                           .
                        
                     
                  
               
               
                  3112.
                  PROHIBITION ON AVAILABILITY OF FUNDS TO RECONVERT OR RETIRE W76–2 WARHEADS
                  
                     (a)
                     Prohibition
                     Except as provided in subsection (b), none of the funds authorized to be appropriated by this Act or otherwise made available for fiscal year 2025 for the National Nuclear Security Administration may be obligated or expended to reconvert or retire a W76–2 warhead.
                  
                  
                     (b)
                     Waiver
                     The Administrator for Nuclear Security may waive the prohibition under subsection (a) if the Administrator, in consultation with the Secretary of Defense and the Chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff, certifies in writing to the congressional defense committees that—
                     
                        (1)
                        Russia and China do not possess naval capabilities similar to the W76–2 warhead in the active stockpiles of the respective countries; and
                     
                     
                        (2)
                        the Department of Defense does not have a valid military requirement for the W76–2 warhead.
                     
                  
               
               
                  3113.
                  DESIGNATION OF NATIONAL NUCLEAR SECURITY ADMINISTRATION AS TECHNICAL NUCLEAR FORENSICS LEAD
                  
                     (a)
                     In general
                     Section 3211(b) of the National Nuclear Security Administration Act (50 U.S.C. 2401(b)) is amended by adding at the end the following new paragraph: 
                     
                        
                           (7)
                           To lead the technical nuclear forensics efforts of the United States.
                        
                        .
                     
                  
                  
                     (b)
                     Rule of construction
                     The amendment made by this section may not be construed to alter the functions vested in any department or agency of the Federal Government by statute other than the National Nuclear Security Administration pursuant to such amendment.
                  
               
            
            
               C
               Other Matters
               
                  3121.
                  MODIFICATION TO AND TERMINATION OF CERTAIN REPORTING REQUIREMENTS UNDER ATOMIC ENERGY DEFENSE ACT
                  
                     (a)
                     Plan for construction and operation of MOX facility
                     Section 4306 of the Atomic Energy Defense Act (50 U.S.C. 2566(a)(3)) is amended in subsection (a)(3)(A) by striking for as long as the MOX facility is in use and inserting through 2024.
                  
                  
                     (b)
                     Planned disposition program
                     Such section is further amended in subsection (e) by striking If on July 1 each year beginning in 2025 and continuing for as long as the MOX facility is in use, less than 34 metric tons of defense plutonium or defense plutonium materials have been processed by the MOX facility and inserting If less than 34 metric tons of defense plutonium or defense plutonium materials have been processed by the MOX facility by October 1, 2026.
                  
               
               
                  3122.
                  LIST OF POTENTIAL ADVANCED NUCLEAR TECHNOLOGY DEPLOYMENT OPPORTUNITIES
                  Not later than 180 days after the date of enactment of this Act, the Secretary of Defense shall submit to the congressional defense committees a list of at least 30 potential opportunities to deploy advanced nuclear technology to bolster the operational energy, installation energy, and expeditionary energy capabilities of the Department of Defense.
               
               
                  3123.
                  SENSE OF CONGRESS REGARDING DEVELOPMENT OF STORAGE FACILITIES FOR PERMANENT STORAGE OF NUCLEAR MATERIAL WITHIN THE GREAT LAKES BASIN
                  It is the sense of Congress that the Government of the United States and the government of Canada should not develop storage facilities for the permanent storage of spent nuclear fuel, low-level or high-level nuclear waste, or military-grade nuclear material within the Great Lakes Basin.
               
               
                  3124.
                  SENSE OF CONGRESS ON COMMITMENT TO NUCLEAR POWER
                  It is the sense of Congress that in order to achieve geopolitical energy leadership and secure American energy security in the years to come, Congress urges the Department of Defense to embrace and accept nuclear power as a clean baseload energy source that is easily compatible with other intermittent energy sources to ultimately achieve a reliable, secure, and resilient energy apparatus within the Department of Defense.
               
               
                  3125.
                  SENSE OF CONGRESS SUPPORTING PROJECT PELE
                  It is the sense of Congress that—
                  
                     (1)
                     Congress supports Project Pele, which seeks to develop, demonstrate, and deploy an advanced portable nuclear microreactor at Idaho National Laboratory by 2025; and
                  
                  
                     (2)
                     Project Pele will be critical in maintaining and bolstering United States national security by providing firm, reliable, clean, and dense baseload energy to power United States military bases and other distributed military operations, both domestically and abroad.
                  
               
            
         
         
            XXXII
            DEFENSE NUCLEAR FACILITIES SAFETY BOARD
            
               3201.
               AUTHORIZATION
               There are authorized to be appropriated for fiscal year 2025, $47,210,000 for the operation of the Defense Nuclear Facilities Safety Board under chapter 21 of the Atomic Energy Act of 1954 (42 U.S.C. 2286 et seq.).
            
         
         
            XXXIV
            NAVAL PETROLEUM RESERVES
            
               3401.
               AUTHORIZATION OF APPROPRIATIONS
               
                  (a)
                  Amount
                  There are hereby authorized to be appropriated to the Secretary of Energy $13,010,000 for fiscal year 2025 for the purpose of carrying out activities under chapter 869 of title 10, United States Code, relating to the naval petroleum reserves.
               
               
                  (b)
                  Period of availability
                  Funds appropriated pursuant to the authorization of appropriations in subsection (a) shall remain available until expended.
               
            
         
         
            XXXV
            MARITIME ADMINISTRATION
            
               A
               Maritime Administration
               
                  3501.
                  AUTHORIZATION OF APPROPRIATIONS FOR MARITIME ADMINISTRATION
                  There are authorized to be appropriated to the Department of Transportation for fiscal year 2025, for programs associated with maintaining the United States Merchant Marine, the following amounts: 
                  
                     (1)
                     For expenses necessary to support the United States Merchant Marine Academy, $191,000,000, of which—
                     
                        (A)
                        $105,000,000 shall be for Academy operations;
                     
                     
                        (B)
                        $64,000,000 shall be for United States Merchant Marine Academy capital improvement projects; and
                     
                     
                        (C)
                        $22,000,000 shall be for facilities maintenance and repair and equipment.
                     
                  
                  
                     (2)
                     For expenses necessary to support the State maritime academies, $58,900,000, of which—
                     
                        (A)
                        $4,800,000 shall be for the Student Incentive Payment Program;
                     
                     
                        (B)
                        $6,000,000 shall be for direct payments for State maritime academies;
                     
                     
                        (C)
                        $17,600,000 shall be for training ship fuel assistance;
                     
                     
                        (D)
                        $6,000,000 shall be for offsetting the costs of training ship sharing; and
                     
                     
                        (E)
                        $24,500,000 shall be for maintenance and repair of State maritime academy training vessels.
                     
                  
                  
                     (3)
                     For expenses necessary to support the National Security Multi-Mission Vessel program, including funds for construction and necessary expenses to construct shoreside infrastructure to support such vessels, $75,000,000.
                  
                  
                     (4)
                     For expenses necessary to support Maritime Administration operations and programs, $108,000,000, of which—
                     
                        (A)
                        $15,000,000 shall be for the maritime environmental and technical assistance program under section 50307 of title 46, United States Code;
                     
                     
                        (B)
                        $15,000,000 shall be for the United States marine highways program, including to make grants authorized under section 55601 of title 46, United States Code; and
                     
                     
                        (C)
                        $78,000,000 shall be for headquarters operations expenses.
                     
                  
                  
                     (5)
                     For expenses necessary for the disposal of obsolete vessels in the National Defense Reserve Fleet of the Maritime Administration, $6,000,000.
                  
                  
                     (6)
                     For expenses necessary to maintain and preserve a United States flag merchant marine to serve the national security needs of the United States under chapter 531 of title 46, United States Code, $390,000,000.
                  
                  
                     (7)
                     For expenses necessary for the loan guarantee program under chapter 537 of title 46, United States Code, $3,700,000, which may be used for administrative expenses relating to loan guarantee commitments under such program.
                  
                  
                     (8)
                     For expenses necessary to provide assistance to small shipyards and for maritime training programs authorized under section 54101 of title 46, United States Code, $35,000,000.
                  
                  
                     (9)
                     For expenses necessary to implement the port infrastructure development program, as authorized under section 54301 of title 46, United States Code, $500,000,000, to remain available until expended, except that no such funds authorized under this title for this program may be used to provide a grant to purchase fully automated cargo handling equipment that is remotely operated or remotely monitored with or without the exercise of human intervention or control, if the Secretary of Transportation determines such equipment would result in a net loss of jobs within a port or port terminal. If such a determination is made, the data and analysis for such determination shall be reported to the Committee on Commerce, Science, and Transportation of the Senate and the Committee on Transportation and Infrastructure of the House of Representatives not later than 3 days after the date of the determination.
                  
               
               
                  3502.
                  REAUTHORIZATION OF MARITIME SECURITY PROGRAM
                  
                     (a)
                     Award of operating agreements
                     Section 53103 of title 46, United States Code, is amended by striking 2035 each place it appears and inserting 2040.
                  
                  
                     (b)
                     Effectiveness of operating agreements
                     Section 53104(a) of title 46, United States Code, is amended by striking 2035 and inserting 2040.
                  
                  
                     (c)
                     Annual payments
                     Section 53106(a)(1) of title 46, United States Code, is amended—
                     
                        (1)
                        in subparagraph (C), by striking 2024, and 2025 and inserting , and 2024;
                     
                     
                        (2)
                        by redesignating subparagraphs (D) through (F) as subparagraphs (E) through (G), respectively;
                     
                     
                        (3)
                        by inserting after subparagraph (C) the following new subparagraph (D):
                        
                           
                              (D)
                              $6,500,000 for each of fiscal years 2025 and 2026;
                           
                           ;
                        
                     
                     
                        (4)
                        in subparagraph (E), as so redesignated—
                        
                           (A)
                           by striking $5,800,000 and inserting $6,675,500; and
                        
                        
                           (B)
                           by striking 2026, 2027, and inserting 2027; 
                        
                     
                     
                        (5)
                        in subparagraph (F), as so redesignated—
                        
                           (A)
                           by striking $6,300,000 and inserting $6,855,000; and
                        
                        
                           (B)
                           by striking , 2030, and 2031; and and inserting and 2030;;
                        
                     
                     
                        (6)
                        in subparagraph (G), as so redesignated—
                        
                           (A)
                           by striking $6,800,000 and inserting $7,040,000;
                        
                        
                           (B)
                           by inserting 2031 and before 2032; and
                        
                        
                           (C)
                           by striking , 2033, 2034, and 2035. and inserting a semicolon; and
                        
                     
                     
                        (7)
                        by adding at the end the following new subparagraphs:
                        
                           
                              (H)
                              $7,230,000 for each of fiscal years 2033 and 2034;
                           
                           
                              (I)
                              $7,426,000 for each of fiscal years 2035 and 2036;
                           
                           
                              (J)
                              $7,626,000 for each of fiscal years 2037 and 2038; and
                           
                           
                              (K)
                              $7,832,000 for each of fiscal years 2039 and 2040.
                           
                           .
                        
                     
                  
                  
                     (d)
                     Authorization of appropriations
                     Section 53111 of title 46, United States Code, is amended—
                     
                        (1)
                        in paragraph (3), by striking 2024, and 2025 and inserting and 2024;
                     
                     
                        (2)
                        by redesignating paragraphs (4) through (6) as paragraphs (5) through (7), respectively;
                     
                     
                        (3)
                        by inserting after paragraph (3) the following new paragraph (4):
                        
                           
                              (4)
                              $390,000,000 for each of fiscal years 2025 and 2026;
                           
                           ;
                        
                     
                     
                        (4)
                        in paragraph (5), as so redesignated—
                        
                           (A)
                           by striking $348,000,000 and inserting $400,500,000; and
                        
                        
                           (B)
                           by striking 2026, 2027, and inserting 2027;
                        
                     
                     
                        (5)
                        in paragraph (6), as so redesignated—
                        
                           (A)
                           by striking $378,000,000 and inserting $411,300,000; and
                        
                        
                           (B)
                           by striking , 2030, and 2031; and and inserting and 2030;;
                        
                     
                     
                        (6)
                        in paragraph (7), as so redesignated—
                        
                           (A)
                           by striking $408,000,000 and inserting $422,400,000; and
                        
                        
                           (B)
                           by striking 2032, 2033, 2034, and 2035 and inserting 2031 and 2032; and
                        
                     
                     
                        (7)
                        by adding at the end the following new paragraphs:
                        
                           
                              (8)
                               $433,800,000 for each of fiscal years 2033 and 2034;
                           
                           
                              (9)
                              $445,560,000 for each of fiscal years 2035 and 2036;
                           
                           
                              (10)
                              $457,560,000 for each of fiscal years 2037 and 2038; and
                           
                           
                              (11)
                              $469,920,000 for each of fiscal years 2039 and 2040.
                           
                           .
                        
                     
                  
               
            
            
               B
               Maritime Infrastructure
               
                  3511.
                  PORT INFRASTRUCTURE DEVELOPMENT PROGRAM
                  
                     (a)
                     Port infrastructure development grants
                     
                        (1)
                        In general
                        In making port infrastructure development grants under section 54301 of title 46, United States Code, for fiscal years 2025 and 2026 using funds appropriated after the date of the enactment of this Act, the Secretary of Transportation shall treat a project described in paragraph (2) as—
                        
                           (A)
                           having met the requirements of paragraph (1) and (6)(A)(i) of section 54301(a) of such title; and
                        
                        
                           (B)
                           an eligible project under paragraph (3) of such section.
                        
                     
                     
                        (2)
                        Project described
                        A project described in this paragraph is a project to provide shore power at a port that services—
                        
                           (A)
                           passenger vessels described in section 3507(k) of title 46, United States Code; and
                        
                        
                           (B)
                           vessels that move goods or freight.
                        
                     
                  
                  
                     (b)
                     Categorical exclusions
                     
                        (1)
                        Reciprocal use of categorical exclusions
                        Not later than 6 months after the date of enactment of this Act, the Secretary of Transportation shall issue a notice of proposed rulemaking to establish that the Maritime Administrator may approve any action qualifying as a categorical exclusion established by the Federal Highway Administration, the Federal Transit Administration, or the Federal Railroad Administration, as outlined in part 771 of title 23, Code of Federal Regulations, when the applicable requirements of that categorical exclusion have been met.
                     
                     
                        (2)
                        New categorical exclusions
                        
                           (A)
                           In general
                           Not later than 6 months after the date of enactment of this Act, the Secretary shall publish a notice of proposed rulemaking to propose new Maritime Administration categorical exclusions for port authority projects that are in compliance with the National Environmental Policy Act of 1969 (42 U.S.C. 4321 et seq.).
                        
                        
                           (B)
                           Expanding list
                           The Maritime Administration's list of categorical exclusions may be expanded with the goal of having a list that allows the Maritime Administration to issue categorical exclusions that maritime port authorities would typically use, independently of the lists of other Department of Transportation modal agencies, including categorical exclusions that the Secretary determines would be useful to maritime port authorities in the course of Federal grant-funded projects.
                        
                     
                     
                        (3)
                        Process for regular updates
                        The Secretary shall include in the rule required by paragraph (2) a process by which the Maritime Administration will update the list of categorical exclusions to reflect lessons learned in grant administration and project construction that lead to new efficiencies in the requirements of the National Environmental Policy Act of 1969 (42 U.S.C. 4321 et seq.). 
                     
                  
                  
                     (c)
                     Application timelines
                     Section 54301(a)(5) of title 46, United States Code, is amended by adding at the end the following: 
                     
                        
                           (C)
                           Delayed notice of funding opportunity
                           If an amendment is made to a published solicitation for grant applications such that an applicant would need the information contained in the amendment to draft an application, other than an amendment of the amount of grant funding available, the Secretary shall extend the application deadline by the number of days between the initial solicitation and the amendment.
                        
                        .
                     
                  
                  
                     (d)
                     Project budget reviews
                     Section 54301(a)(9) of title 46, United States Code, is amended—
                     
                        (1)
                        in subparagraph (B) by striking and at the end;
                     
                     
                        (2)
                        in subparagraph (C) by striking the period at the end and inserting ; and; and 
                     
                     
                        (3)
                        by adding at the end the following:
                        
                           
                              (D)
                              grant contracts are approved efficiently by the Secretary, minimizing delays for minor adjustments to project scopes and budgets due to inflationary effects on projects. 
                           
                           .
                        
                     
                  
                  
                     (e)
                     Staffing and grant timelines
                     Section 54301(a)(11) of title 46, United States Code, is amended by adding at the end the following: 
                     
                        
                           (C)
                           Administrative and oversight report
                           Not later than 365 days after the date of the enactment of this subparagraph, and each year thereafter, the Secretary shall submit to Congress a report on the average length of grant obligation timelines and the nature of any staffing shortages relevant to administering this program.
                        
                        .
                     
                  
               
               
                  3512.
                  SEALIFT CAPABILITY
                  
                     (a)
                     Title 46
                     Subtitle V of title 46, United States Code, is amended by inserting after chapter 575 the following:
                     
                        
                           577
                           Strategic Sealift
                           
                              57701. Procurement, maintenance, and operation.
                              57702. Sealift prioritization.
                              57703. Interaction with programs.
                              57704. Assessment on maritime infrastructure readiness.
                              57705. Definition of treaty allies.
                           
                           
                              57701.
                              PROCUREMENT, MAINTENANCE, AND OPERATION
                              
                                 (a)
                                 In general
                                 The Secretary of Transportation and the Secretary of Defense shall build, acquire, maintain, coordinate, support, and operate a civil, commercial, and military sealift capability sufficient to provide capacity and resiliency for unilateral United States strategic sealift in peace, crisis, and war.
                              
                              
                                 (b)
                                 Supplemental capability
                                 Sealift capability built, acquired, maintained, supported, and operated by the Secretary of Transportation and Secretary of Defense shall be in addition to capability available under the Maritime Security Program under chapter 531, the Cable Security Program under chapter 532, the Tanker Security Program under chapter 534, the Ready Reserve Force under chapter 571, and vessels operated by the Military Sealift Command. 
                              
                           
                           
                              57702.
                              SEALIFT PRIORITIZATION
                              
                                 (a)
                                 In general
                                 In building, acquiring, maintaining, coordinating, supporting, and operating sealift capability in time of peace, crisis, and war, the Secretary of Transportation and the Secretary of Defense shall give priority to the following categories of vessels in the following order:
                                 
                                    (1)
                                    Commercial United States-flagged vessels.
                                 
                                 
                                    (2)
                                    United States Government owned and operated sealift vessels.
                                 
                                 
                                    (3)
                                    Vessels documented by treaty allies.
                                 
                              
                              
                                 (b)
                                 Prioritization
                                 In moving through the order of priority under this section, the Secretary of Defense, in consultation with the Secretary of Transportation, shall determine the timing of moving through the categories of vessels in the order specified in subsection (a).
                              
                           
                           
                              57703.
                              INTERACTION WITH PROGRAMS
                              The Secretary of Transportation and the Secretary of Defense may acquire ships documented by treaty allies or maintain and repair ships documented by treaty allies which meet the criteria for participation in the Maritime Security Program under chapter 531, the Cable Security Program under chapter 532, the Tanker Security Program under chapter 534, Ready Reserve Fleet, and the fleet under this chapter. 
                           
                           
                              57704.
                              ASSESSMENT ON MARITIME INFRASTRUCTURE READINESS
                              
                                 (a)
                                 In general
                                 Not later than March 1, 2026, and every two years thereafter, the Secretary of Defense, in consultation with the Secretary of Homeland Security, the Secretary of Commerce, and the Secretary of Transportation shall provide Congress an assessment on—
                                 
                                    (1)
                                    the readiness and sufficiency of America’s maritime infrastructure, shipping industry, shipbuilding industry, and United States-flagged, owned, and operated fleets to meet strategic sealift requirements and operate in a contested environment;
                                 
                                 
                                    (2)
                                    the vulnerability of the United States’ economy to coercion or control from our nation’s strategic competitors through ocean-going trades; 
                                 
                                 
                                    (3)
                                    the vulnerability of critical infrastructure in the United States maritime transportation system, including ports, shipyards, repair yards, inland waterways, and the domestic fleet, and foreign investment in maritime infrastructure; and
                                 
                                 
                                    (4)
                                    how to de-risk the maritime transportation system for such vulnerabilities. 
                                 
                              
                              
                                 (b)
                                 Review of arrangements and agreements
                                 Not later than March 1, 2026, and every two years thereafter, the Secretary of Transportation shall provide Congress an assessment on—
                                 
                                    (1)
                                    existing arrangements and agreements with treaty allies for access to the global maritime transportation infrastructure such as ports, harbors, and waterways; and 
                                 
                                 
                                    (2)
                                    existing assurances, arrangements, and agreements with treaty allies to augment United States sealift capabilities in times of crisis and war.
                                 
                              
                           
                           
                              57705.
                              DEFINITION OF TREATY ALLIES
                              In this chapter, the term treaty allies means nations with whom the United States has entered into mutual defense treaties. 
                           
                        
                        .
                     
                  
                  
                     (b)
                     Reports and briefings
                     
                        (1)
                        In general
                        Not later than March 1, 2025, the Secretary of Transportation, in coordination with the Secretary of State and the Secretary of Defense, shall provide to Congress an evaluation of the status of treaty allies (as such term is defined in section 57705 of title 46, United States Code) sealift assurances, including an assessment of international agreements to meet wartime sealift requirements of such allies and augment United States sealift requirements during peace, crisis, and war, and recommendations for updating such agreements to reflect the global security environment.
                     
                     
                        (2)
                        Briefing on shipbuilding capacity
                        
                           (A)
                           In general
                           Not later than March 1, 2025,the Secretary of Transportation and Secretary of Defense shall brief Congress on the capacity of the United States shipbuilding industry to meet the requirements to build, maintain, and repair the strategic sealift fleet described under chapter 577 of title 46, United States Code.
                        
                        
                           (B)
                           Contents
                           In briefing Congress under subparagraph (A), the Secretary of Transportation and the Secretary of Defense shall include an assessment and recommendations for improving the critical shipbuilding infrastructure, workforce recruitment, development, and retention, and critical supply chains and critical repair parts of the United States, including ways in which treaty allies (as such term is defined in section 57705 of title 46, United States Code) can contribute.
                        
                     
                     
                        (3)
                        Briefing on privileging fleet
                        
                           (A)
                           In general
                           Not later than March 1, 2025, the Secretary of Transportation, in coordination with the Secretary of Homeland Security, the Secretary of Commerce, and the Chairman of the Federal Maritime Commission, shall brief Congress on available options for establishing privileges for the United States-owned and United States-documented commercial fleet participating in the international ocean-based trading market that will sustain and significantly grow the United States-flagged fleet.
                        
                        
                           (B)
                           Contents
                           In briefing Congress under subparagraph (A), the Secretary shall provide recommendations for and potential incentives, for civil, commercial, and government entities, including treaty allies (as such term is defined in section 57705 of title 46, United States Code), to ship goods on the United States-flagged fleet.
                        
                     
                     
                        (4)
                        Report on privilege
                        
                           (A)
                           In general
                           Not later than March 1, 2025, the Secretary of Transportation, in coordination with the Secretary of Commerce and the Director of the Office of Management and Budget, shall submit to Congress a report that includes ways to ensure the sealift fleet under chapter 577 of title 46, United States Code, is privileged in regulation, fees, and policy compared to foreign vessels conducting trade with a United States domiciled entity, while remaining consistent with the international obligations of the United States.
                        
                        
                           (B)
                           Contents
                           In submitting the report under subparagraph (A), the Secretary of Transportation shall include options for regulating foreign flagged shipping trade with the United States in order to sustain and grow the Maritime Security Program, Tanker Security Program, and other commercial United States-flagged ships that comprise the sealift fleet under chapter 577 of title 46, United States Code.
                        
                     
                     
                        (5)
                        Report on requirements for sealift force deployment
                        
                           (A)
                           In general
                           Not later than March 1, 2025, the Secretary of Defense shall submit to Congress a report on requirements to maintain, improve, or grow the Maritime Security Program, Tanker Security Program, Ready Reserve Force, and the sealift fleet under chapter 577 of title 46, United States Code, over the decade following the date of enactment of this Act.
                        
                        
                           (B)
                           Contents
                           The report under subparagraph (A) shall include a plan for making the Ready Reserve Force active in international trade through a public-private partnership that enables financing, building, manning, operating, maintaining, and repairing the program vessels, while guaranteeing assured effective control in times of crisis or war.
                        
                     
                  
                  
                     (c)
                     Clerical amendment
                     The analysis for subtitle V of title 46, United States Code, is amended by inserting after the item relating to chapter 575 the following: 
                     
                        
                           
                              577.
                              Strategic Sealift
                              57701
                           
                        
                        .
                     
                  
               
            
            
               C
               Reports
               
                  3521.
                  INDEPENDENT STUDY AND REPORT ON SHANGHAI SHIPPING EXCHANGE
                  
                     (a)
                     Study
                     Not later than 1 year after the date of enactment of this Act, the Secretary of Transportation shall enter into an agreement with an appropriate independent entity to conduct a study and assessment of the business practices of the Shanghai Shipping Exchange, including—
                     
                        (1)
                        any anticompetitive advantages benefitting the Shanghai Shipping Exchange; and
                     
                     
                        (2)
                        the ability of the Ministry of Transport of the People’s Republic of China and the Shanghai Shipping Exchange to manipulate container freight markets.
                     
                  
                  
                     (b)
                     Elements
                     In conducting the study and assessment under subsection (a), the appropriate independent entity that enters into an agreement under subsection (a) shall address the following:
                     
                        (1)
                        The influence of the government of the People’s Republic of China on the Shanghai Shipping Exchange.
                     
                     
                        (2)
                        The effect of the business practices or influence of the Shanghai Shipping Exchange on United States consumers and businesses.
                     
                     
                        (3)
                        The ability of a shipping exchange registered under section 40504 of title 46, United States Code, and based in the United States to identify market manipulation as described in subsection (a)(2) or any otherwise concerning practices by the Shanghai Shipping Exchange and report such incidents to the Federal Maritime Commission and other Federal regulators.
                     
                     
                        (4)
                        Any other matters the Secretary or the appropriate independent entity that enters into an agreement under subsection (a) determines to be appropriate for the purposes of the study.
                     
                  
                  
                     (c)
                     Report
                     
                        (1)
                        In general
                        Not later than 1 year after the date on which the Secretary enters into an agreement under this section, the appropriate independent entity shall submit to the Secretary, the congressional defense committees, the Committee on Transportation and Infrastructure of the House of Representatives, and the Committee on Commerce, Science, and Transportation of the Senate a report containing the results of the study conducted under subsection (a).
                     
                     
                        (2)
                        Public availability
                        The Secretary shall publish the report required under paragraph (1) on a publicly accessible website of the Department of Transportation.
                     
                  
                  
                     (d)
                     Obtaining official data
                     
                        (1)
                        In general
                        The appropriate independent entity that enters into an agreement under subsection (a) may secure directly from any department or agency of the Federal Government information necessary to enable such entity to carry out this section.
                     
                     
                        (2)
                        Request for information
                        Upon request of the appropriate independent entity that enters into an agreement under subsection (a), the head of such department or agency shall furnish such information to the appropriate independent entity, unless doing so would not be in the public interest.
                     
                  
                  
                     (e)
                     Appropriate independent entity defined
                     In this section, the term appropriate independent entity means—
                     
                        (1)
                        a federally funded research and development center sponsored by a Federal agency;
                     
                     
                        (2)
                        the Transportation Research Board of the National Academies;
                     
                     
                        (3)
                        the Government Accountability Office; or
                     
                     
                        (4)
                        an organization described in section 501(c) of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986 and exempt from taxation under section 501(a) of such Code.
                     
                  
               
               
                  3522.
                  STUDY ON THE MOVEMENT OF CRITICAL CARGO THROUGH MARINE TERMINALS AND PORTS
                  
                     (a)
                     Study
                     Not later than one year after the date of the enactment of this section, the Secretary of Transportation, in coordination with the Secretary of Defense and in consultation with the head of each relevant Federal agency, shall conduct a study on the movement of critical cargo through marine terminals and ports, including an examination of—
                     
                        (1)
                        efforts to expedite the movement of critical cargo through ports and marine terminals; and
                     
                     
                        (2)
                        methodologies, practices, and processes for—
                        
                           (A)
                           moving such cargo during an event for which an emergency is declared by the President or a Federal agency;
                        
                        
                           (B)
                           identifying critical cargo and expediting the movement of such cargo through the marine terminals and ports;
                        
                        
                           (C)
                           expediting the movement of critical cargo across all modes of transportation after leaving marine terminals and ports;
                        
                        
                           (D)
                           improving the readiness of the Armed Forces through the expedited movement of critical cargo; and
                        
                        
                           (E)
                           mitigating the impact on the movement of other cargo that is not critical.
                        
                     
                  
                  
                     (b)
                     Request for information
                     The Secretary of Transportation shall issue a request for information in the Federal Register seeking public comment on the matters to be considered in the study under subsection (a).
                  
                  
                     (c)
                     Voluntary pilot program
                     
                        (1)
                        In general
                        In carrying out the study under subsection (a), the Secretary may establish one or more voluntary pilot programs to test the effectiveness of any methodology, practice, or process for expediting the movement of critical cargo through ports and marine terminals.
                     
                     
                        (2)
                        Limitations
                        In carrying out any pilot program under paragraph (1), the Secretary—
                        
                           (A)
                           may not purchase any fully automated cargo handling equipment that is remotely operated or remotely monitored, with or without human intervention or control; and 
                        
                        
                           (B)
                           shall ensure any such pilot program does not result in a net loss of jobs within a marine terminal or port.
                        
                     
                  
                  
                     (d)
                     Report
                     Not later than two years after the date of the enactment of this section, the Secretary shall submit to the appropriate committees of Congress a report containing—
                     
                        (1)
                        the findings of the study conducted under subsection (a); and
                     
                     
                        (2)
                        recommendations with respect to the methodologies, practices, and processes examined in such study, including recommendations for using data from commercial and governmental data tracking initiatives to—
                        
                           (A)
                           determine when cargo is critical and needs to be expedited;
                        
                        
                           (B)
                           identify such cargo at port and marine terminals; and
                        
                        
                           (C)
                           expedite the movement and distribution of such cargo to end users.
                        
                     
                  
                  
                     (e)
                     Rule of construction
                     Nothing in this section shall be construed to interfere with or supersede any agreement regarding port labor.
                  
                  
                     (f)
                     Definitions
                     In this section:
                     
                        (1)
                        The term appropriate committees of Congress means—
                        
                           (A)
                           the Committees on Armed Services of the Senate and the House of Representatives;
                        
                        
                           (B)
                           the Committee on Commerce, Science, and Transportation of the Senate; and
                        
                        
                           (C)
                           the Committee on Transportation and Infrastructure of the House of Representatives.
                        
                     
                     
                        (2)
                        The term relevant Federal agency means—
                        
                           (A)
                           the Department of Health and Human Services; and
                        
                        
                           (B)
                           any other Federal agency determined relevant by the Secretary of Transportation.
                        
                     
                  
               
            
            
               D
               Other Matters
               
                  3531.
                  EXTENSION OF CERTAIN PROVISIONS RELATING TO TANKER SECURITY FLEET PROGRAM
                  
                     (a)
                     Operating agreements
                     Section 53404(a) of title 46, United States Code, is amended by striking 2035 and inserting 2040.
                  
                  
                     (b)
                     Authorization of appropriations
                     Section 53411 of such title is amended by striking 2035 and inserting 2040. 
                  
               
               
                  3532.
                  REQUIREMENTS FOR PURCHASING FEDERALLY AUCTIONED VESSELS
                  
                     (a)
                     In general
                     
                        Chapter 571 of title 46, United States Code, is amended by adding at the end the following:
                     
                        
                           57112.
                           REQUIREMENTS FOR PURCHASING FEDERALLY AUCTIONED VESSELS
                           
                              (a)
                              In general
                              To be eligible to purchase a covered vessel from the Federal Government, a person shall provide proof of—
                              
                                 (1)
                                 liability insurance for the operator of such covered vessel;
                              
                              
                                 (2)
                                 financial resources sufficient to cover maintenance costs of such covered vessel; and
                              
                              
                                 (3)
                                 with respect to a covered vessel requiring documentation under chapter 121, an admiralty bond or stipulation.
                              
                           
                           
                              (b)
                              Covered vessel defined
                              In this section, the term covered vessel means—
                              
                                 (1)
                                 a government owned vessel disposed of in accordance with this part and section 548 of title 40;
                              
                              
                                 (2)
                                 a vessel seized or forfeited pursuant to any law, and auctioned by the Federal Government, including a vessel seized or forfeited pursuant to section 7301 or 7302 of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986; or
                              
                              
                                 (3)
                                 a fishing vessel seized or forfeited pursuant to section 310 of the Magnuson-Stevens Fishery Conservation and Management Act (16 U.S.C. 1860).
                              
                           
                        
                        .
                     
                  
                  
                     (b)
                     Clerical amendment
                     The analysis for chapter 571 of title 46, United States Code, is amended by adding at the end the following:
                     
                        
                           57112. Requirements for purchasing federally auctioned vessels.
                        
                        .
                     
                  
               
               
                  3533.
                  RECAPITALIZATION OF NATIONAL DEFENSE RESERVE FLEET
                  Subsection (a) of section 3546 of the James M. Inhofe National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2023 (Public Law 117–263; 46 U.S.C. 57100 note) is amended to read as follows:
                  
                     
                        (a)
                        In general
                        
                           (1)
                           Vessel construction
                           Subject to the availability of appropriations, the Secretary of Transportation, in consultation with the Chief of Naval Operations and the Commandant of the Coast Guard, shall complete the design of a sealift vessel for the National Defense Reserve Fleet to allow for the construction of such vessel to begin in fiscal year 2025.
                        
                        
                           (2)
                           Agreement with vessel construction manager
                           Notwithstanding section 8679 of title 10, United States Code, and subject to the availability of appropriations made specifically available for reimbursements to the Ready Reserve Force, Maritime Administration account of the Department of Transportation for programs, projects, activities, and expenses related to the National Defense Reserve Fleet, the Secretary of the Navy shall support the Secretary of Transportation to seek to enter into an agreement with an appropriate vessel construction manager under which the vessel construction manager shall enter into a contract for the construction of not more than ten such vessels in accordance with this section.
                        
                     
                     .
                  
               
               
                  3534.
                  POLICIES REGARDING TRAINING OF CERTAIN VETERANS IN THE STATE MARITIME ACADEMIES
                  
                     (a)
                     In general
                     Not later than 90 days after the date of the enactment of this Act, the Secretary of Transportation shall revise—
                     
                        (1)
                        section 310.3(c)(1) of title 46, Code of Federal Regulations, to waive the minimum period of training at a State maritime academy for a veteran who—
                        
                           (A)
                           was honorably discharged from an Armed Force; and
                        
                        
                           (B)
                           has a bachelor’s degree; and
                        
                     
                     
                        (2)
                        the Federal Curriculum Standards for Merchant Marine Officers Training Program so a veteran described in paragraph (1) may receive training at a State maritime academy without being required to obtain a second bachelor’s degree.
                     
                  
                  
                     (b)
                     Definitions
                     In this section:
                     
                        (1)
                        The term State maritime academy has the meaning given such term in section 51102 of title 46, United States Code.
                     
                     
                        (2)
                        The term veteran has the meaning given such term in section 101 of title 38, United States Code.
                     
                  
               
               
                  3535.
                  TECHNICAL CLARIFICATIONS
                  
                     (a)
                     Port infrastructure development program
                     Section 54301(a) of title 46, United States Code, is amended—
                     
                        (1)
                        in paragraph (6)—
                        
                           (A)
                           in subparagraph (A)(ii) by striking subparagraph (C) and inserting subparagraph (D); and
                        
                        
                           (B)
                           by redesignating the second subparagraph (C) as subparagraph (D);
                        
                     
                     
                        (2)
                        in paragraph (10)(B)(i) by striking ans and inserting and; and 
                     
                     
                        (3)
                        in paragraph (12)(E) by striking and before commercial port.
                     
                  
                  
                     (b)
                     Assistance for small shipyards
                     Section 54101 of title 46, United States Code, is amended by striking subsection (i). 
                  
                  
                     (c)
                     National defense reserve fleet
                     Section 57100 of title 46, United States Code, is amended—
                     
                        (1)
                        in subsection (b)(1) by striking section 902 of the Merchant Marine Act, 1936 (46 App. U.S.C. 1242) and inserting chapter 563; and
                     
                     
                        (2)
                        in subsection (f)(2) by striking the such use and inserting the use of such.
                     
                  
                  
                     (d)
                     Maritime workforce working group
                     Section 3534(d)(1) of the National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2024 (Public Law 118–31) is amended by striking section 3545(a) and inserting section 3542(a).
                  
               
               
                  3536.
                  MARITIME WORKFORCE PROMOTION AND RECRUITMENT ACT
                  
                     (a)
                     Purpose
                     The purpose of this Act is to address the shortage of workers in the maritime sector and stimulate growth in the United States merchant marine and shipbuilding industries by providing funding for a comprehensive marketing, recruiting, and public relations campaign. Expanding and nurturing a robust maritime workforce enhances United States national security and strategic sealift readiness.
                  
                  
                     (b)
                     Establishment
                     The Secretary of Transportation, in coordination with the Secretary of the department in which the Coast Guard is operating when not operating as a service in the Navy and the Secretary of Defense, shall establish—
                     
                        (1)
                         a targeted campaign promoting the virtues of work in the United States Merchant Marine for the purpose of sailing in international trade, including Military Sealift Command mariner positions, highlighting the critical need for skilled workers in this sector, and to attract workers to this sector; and
                     
                     
                        (2)
                        a targeted campaign promoting the virtues of work in the United States shipbuilding industry, highlighting the critical need for skilled workers in this sector, and to attract workers to this sector.
                     
                  
                  
                     (c)
                     Contracting
                     The Administrator of the Maritime Administration shall, through a competitive bidding process, contract with a reputable marketing, recruiting, and public relations firm to develop and deploy branding, content, advertising buys, and local and national engagement strategies to implement the campaigns described in subsection (b).
                  
                  
                     (d)
                     Campaign objectives
                     The campaigns described in subsection (b) shall focus on the following objectives: 
                     
                        (1)
                        Emphasize the importance of maritime work for national security.
                     
                     
                        (2)
                        Showcase the numerous opportunities available in the maritime domain.
                     
                     
                        (3)
                        Highlight the shortage of workers in the maritime sector.
                     
                     
                        (4)
                        Promote the excitement, benefits, and appeal of a career in the maritime industry.
                     
                     
                        (5)
                        Inform potential workers of the points of entry available to join and receive training for such employment, including—
                        
                           (A)
                           the United States Merchant Marine Academy;
                        
                        
                           (B)
                           State and regional maritime academies described in chapter 515 of title 46, United States Code;
                        
                        
                           (C)
                           merchant mariner and shipbuilding labor union training facilities;
                        
                        
                           (D)
                           merchant mariner and shipbuilding apprenticeship programs approved by the Secretary of Labor; and
                        
                        
                           (E)
                           shipbuilding industry training programs.
                        
                     
                     
                        (6)
                        Inform potential workers of sources of financial assistance for training for individuals interested in joining such industry.
                     
                     
                        (7)
                        Attract workers to the United States merchant marine and shipbuilding sectors.
                     
                  
                  
                     (e)
                     Target Audience
                     In carrying out the campaigns under this Act, to raise awareness about the importance of the merchant marine and shipbuilding sectors, the firm selected under subsection (c) shall target a diverse audience, including—
                     
                        (1)
                        potential workers interested in maritime careers;
                     
                     
                        (2)
                        educational institutions and the students of such institutions considering vocational training in maritime fields;
                     
                     
                        (3)
                        military veterans and individuals seeking career transitions; and
                     
                     
                        (4)
                        the general public.
                     
                  
                  
                     (f)
                     Reporting and accountability
                     
                        (1)
                        Quarterly report
                        Not later than 30 days after the end of each quarter of each fiscal year during the campaigns carried out under this Act, the firm selected under subsection (c) shall submit to the Administrator of the Maritime Administration and the relevant congressional committees quarterly reports detailing the progress, outreach, and impact of the campaigns, and their effectiveness in increasing applications for employment in the United States merchant marine and shipbuilding sectors.
                     
                     
                        (2)
                        Final report
                        Not later than 60 days after the conclusion of the campaigns carried out under this Act, the firm selected under subsection (c) shall submit to the Administrator of the Maritime Administration and the relevant congressional committees a comprehensive final report.
                     
                  
                  
                     (g)
                     Sunset clause
                     Any unobligated amount authorized under this section shall expire 3 years after the date on which such amount is appropriated. 
                  
                  
                     (h)
                     Effective date
                     Not later than 1 year after the date on which amounts authorized under this section are appropriated, the Administrator of the Maritime Administration shall complete the action described in subsection (c).
                  
                  
                     (i)
                     Authorization of appropriations for maritime administration
                     There are authorized to be appropriated to the Administrator of the Maritime Administration for fiscal year 2025 the following amounts:
                     
                        (1)
                        $10,000,000 to carry out the program established under subsection (b)(1). 
                     
                     
                        (2)
                        $5,000,000 to carry out the program established under subsection (b)(2). 
                     
                  
                  
                     (j)
                     Definition
                     In this section, the term relevant congressional committees means—
                     
                        (1)
                        the Committee on Appropriations, the Committee on Armed Services, and the Committee on Transportation and Infrastructure of the House of Representatives; and
                     
                     
                        (2)
                        the Committee on Appropriations, the Committee on Armed Services, and the Committee on Commerce, Science, and Transportation of the Senate.
                     
                  
               
               
                  3537.
                  BUY AMERICA REQUIREMENTS FOR SHIPYARD MODERNIZATION AND IMPROVEMENT PROGRAM
                  Section 53733 of title 46, United States Code, is amended by adding at the end the following:
                  
                     
                        (f)
                        Buy America
                        Section 54101(d)(2) shall apply to any funds obligated by the Administrator under this section.
                     
                     .
                  
               
               
                  3538.
                  TECHNICAL CORRECTIONS
                  
                     (a)
                     Chapter 537
                     The analysis for chapter 537 of title 46, United States Code, is amended by striking the item relating to section 53703 and inserting the following:
                     
                        
                           53703. Application and administration.
                        
                        .
                     
                  
                  
                     (b)
                     Chapter 541
                     The analysis for chapter 541 of title 46, United States Code, is amended to read as follows:
                     
                        
                           Chapter 541—Miscellaneous
                           Sec.
                           54101. Assistance for small shipyards.
                        
                        .
                     
                  
               
            
         
      
      
         D
         Funding Tables
         
            4001.
            AUTHORIZATION OF AMOUNTS IN FUNDING TABLES
            
               (a)
               In general
               Whenever a funding table in this division specifies a dollar amount authorized for a project, program, or activity, the obligation and expenditure of the specified dollar amount for the project, program, or activity is hereby authorized, subject to the availability of appropriations.
            
            
               (b)
               Merit-based decisions
               A decision to commit, obligate, or expend funds with or to a specific entity on the basis of a dollar amount authorized pursuant to subsection (a) shall—
               
                  (1)
                  be based on merit-based selection procedures in accordance with the requirements of sections 2304(k) and 2374 of title 10, United States Code, or on competitive procedures; and
               
               
                  (2)
                  comply with other applicable provisions of law.
               
            
            
               (c)
               Relationship to transfer and programming authority
               An amount specified in the funding tables in this division may be transferred or reprogrammed under a transfer or reprogramming authority provided by another provision of this Act or by other law. The transfer or reprogramming of an amount specified in such funding tables shall not count against a ceiling on such transfers or reprogrammings under section 1001 of this Act or any other provision of law, unless such transfer or reprogramming would move funds between appropriation accounts.
            
            
               (d)
               Applicability to classified annex
               This section applies to any classified annex that accompanies this Act.
            
            
               (e)
               Oral and written communications
               No oral or written communication concerning any amount specified in the funding tables in this division shall supersede the requirements of this section.
            
         
         
            XLI
            PROCUREMENT
            
               4101.
               PROCUREMENT
               
                  
                  
                     
                     
                     
                     
                     
                        
                           
                              SEC. 4101. PROCUREMENT(In Thousands of Dollars)
                           
                        
                        
                           
                              Line
                           
                           
                              Item
                           
                           
                              FY 2025 Request
                           
                           
                              House Authorized
                           
                        
                     
                     
                        
                           
                           
                              AIRCRAFT PROCUREMENT, ARMY
                           
                           
                           
                        
                        
                           
                           
                              FIXED WING
                           
                           
                           
                        
                        
                           002
                           FUTURE UAS FAMILY
                           149,059
                           149,059
                        
                        
                           003
                           SMALL UNMANNED AIRCRAFT SYSTEMS
                           69,573
                           69,573
                        
                        
                           
                           
                              ROTARY
                           
                           
                           
                        
                        
                           004
                           AH–64 APACHE BLOCK IIIA REMAN
                           570,655
                           570,655
                        
                        
                           006
                           UH–60 BLACKHAWK M MODEL (MYP)
                           709,054
                           709,054
                        
                        
                           007
                           UH–60 BLACKHAWK M MODEL (MYP) AP
                           58,170
                           58,170
                        
                        
                           009
                           CH–47 HELICOPTER
                           699,698
                           804,698
                        
                        
                           
                            Two additional aircraft
                           
                           [105,000]
                        
                        
                           
                           
                              MODIFICATION OF AIRCRAFT
                           
                           
                           
                        
                        
                           012
                           MQ–1 PAYLOAD
                           14,086
                           14,086
                        
                        
                           013
                           GRAY EAGLE MODS2
                           23,865
                           23,865
                        
                        
                           015
                           AH–64 MODS
                           81,026
                           81,026
                        
                        
                           016
                           CH–47 CARGO HELICOPTER MODS (MYP)
                           15,825
                           15,825
                        
                        
                           017
                           UTILITY HELICOPTER MODS
                           34,565
                           34,565
                        
                        
                           018
                           NETWORK AND MISSION PLAN
                           49,862
                           49,862
                        
                        
                           019
                           COMMS, NAV SURVEILLANCE
                           61,362
                           61,362
                        
                        
                           020
                           DEGRADED VISUAL ENVIRONMENT
                           3,839
                           3,839
                        
                        
                           021
                           AVIATION ASSURED PNT
                           69,161
                           69,161
                        
                        
                           022
                           GATM ROLLUP
                           4,842
                           4,842
                        
                        
                           023
                           UAS MODS
                           2,265
                           2,265
                        
                        
                           
                           
                              GROUND SUPPORT AVIONICS
                           
                           
                           
                        
                        
                           024
                           AIRCRAFT SURVIVABILITY EQUIPMENT
                           139,331
                           139,331
                        
                        
                           026
                           CMWS
                           51,646
                           51,646
                        
                        
                           027
                           COMMON INFRARED COUNTERMEASURES (CIRCM)
                           257,854
                           257,854
                        
                        
                           
                           
                              OTHER SUPPORT
                           
                           
                           
                        
                        
                           028
                           COMMON GROUND EQUIPMENT
                           31,181
                           31,181
                        
                        
                           029
                           AIRCREW INTEGRATED SYSTEMS
                           14,478
                           14,478
                        
                        
                           030
                           AIR TRAFFIC CONTROL
                           27,428
                           27,428
                        
                        
                           031
                           LAUNCHER, 2.75 ROCKET
                           3,815
                           3,815
                        
                        
                           032
                           LAUNCHER GUIDED MISSILE: LONGBOW HELLFIRE XM2
                           21,543
                           21,543
                        
                        
                           
                           
                               TOTAL AIRCRAFT PROCUREMENT, ARMY
                           
                           
                              3,164,183
                           
                           
                              3,269,183
                           
                        
                        
                           
                           
                           
                           
                        
                        
                           
                           
                              MISSILE PROCUREMENT, ARMY
                           
                           
                           
                        
                        
                           
                           
                              SURFACE-TO-AIR MISSILE SYSTEM
                           
                           
                           
                        
                        
                           001
                           LOWER TIER AIR AND MISSILE DEFENSE (AMD) SEN
                           516,838
                           516,838
                        
                        
                           003
                           M-SHORAD—PROCUREMENT
                           69,091
                           69,091
                        
                        
                           004
                           MSE MISSILE
                           963,060
                           963,060
                        
                        
                           006
                           PRECISION STRIKE MISSILE (PRSM)
                           482,536
                           531,536
                        
                        
                           
                            Army UPL #22/INDOPACOM UPL
                           
                           [49,000]
                        
                        
                           007
                           PRECISION STRIKE MISSILE (PRSM) AP
                           10,030
                           10,030
                        
                        
                           008
                           INDIRECT FIRE PROTECTION CAPABILITY INC 2–I
                           657,581
                           657,581
                        
                        
                           009
                           MID-RANGE CAPABILITY (MRC)
                           233,037
                           233,037
                        
                        
                           010
                           COUNTER SMALL UNMANNED AERIAL SYSTEM INTERCEP
                           117,424
                           314,761
                        
                        
                           
                            Army UPL #1
                           
                           [184,837]
                        
                        
                           
                            cUAS Coyote—Army UPL
                           
                           [12,500]
                        
                        
                           
                           
                              AIR-TO-SURFACE MISSILE SYSTEM
                           
                           
                           
                        
                        
                           012
                           JOINT AIR-TO-GROUND MSLS (JAGM)
                           47,582
                           47,582
                        
                        
                           013
                           LONG-RANGE HYPERSONIC WEAPON
                           744,178
                           744,178
                        
                        
                           
                           
                              ANTI-TANK/ASSAULT MISSILE SYS
                           
                           
                           
                        
                        
                           014
                           JAVELIN (AAWS-M) SYSTEM SUMMARY
                           326,120
                           261,462
                        
                        
                           
                            Forward funded in FY24 Supplemental
                           
                           [–48,083]
                        
                        
                           
                            Initial Spares Cost Growth
                           
                           [–4,000]
                        
                        
                           
                            Recurring Engineering Growth
                           
                           [–12,575]
                        
                        
                           015
                           TOW 2 SYSTEM SUMMARY
                           121,448
                           21,563
                        
                        
                           
                            Forward funded in FY24 Supplemental
                           
                           [–99,885]
                        
                        
                           016
                           GUIDED MLRS ROCKET (GMLRS)
                           1,168,264
                           807,664
                        
                        
                           
                            Forward funded in FY24 Supplemental
                           
                           [–360,600]
                        
                        
                           017
                           GUIDED MLRS ROCKET (GMLRS) AP
                           51,511
                           51,511
                        
                        
                           018
                           MLRS REDUCED RANGE PRACTICE ROCKETS (RRPR)
                           30,230
                           30,230
                        
                        
                           019
                           HIGH MOBILITY ARTILLERY ROCKET SYSTEM (HIMARS
                           79,387
                           79,387
                        
                        
                           020
                           ARMY TACTICAL MSL SYS (ATACMS)—SYS SUM
                           3,280
                           3,280
                        
                        
                           022
                           FAMILY OF LOW ALTITUDE UNMANNED SYSTEMS
                           120,599
                           120,599
                        
                        
                           
                           
                              MODIFICATIONS
                           
                           
                           
                        
                        
                           023
                           PATRIOT MODS
                           171,958
                           171,958
                        
                        
                           024
                           STINGER MODS
                           75,146
                           75,146
                        
                        
                           025
                           AVENGER MODS
                           2,321
                           2,321
                        
                        
                           027
                           MLRS MODS
                           185,839
                           185,839
                        
                        
                           028
                           HIMARS MODIFICATIONS
                           49,581
                           49,581
                        
                        
                           
                           
                              SPARES AND REPAIR PARTS
                           
                           
                           
                        
                        
                           029
                           SPARES AND REPAIR PARTS
                           6,695
                           6,695
                        
                        
                           
                           
                              SUPPORT EQUIPMENT &amp;amp; FACILITIES
                           
                           
                           
                        
                        
                           030
                           AIR DEFENSE TARGETS
                           12,034
                           12,034
                        
                        
                           
                           
                               TOTAL MISSILE PROCUREMENT, ARMY
                           
                           
                              6,245,770
                           
                           
                              5,966,964
                           
                        
                        
                           
                           
                           
                           
                        
                        
                           
                           
                              PROCUREMENT OF WEAPONS AND TRACKED COMBAT VEHICLES, ARMY
                           
                           
                           
                        
                        
                           
                           
                              TRACKED COMBAT VEHICLES
                           
                           
                           
                        
                        
                           001
                           ARMORED MULTI PURPOSE VEHICLE (AMPV)
                           515,344
                           563,344
                        
                        
                           
                            AMPV
                           
                           [48,000]
                        
                        
                           002
                           ASSAULT BREACHER VEHICLE (ABV)
                           5,681
                           5,681
                        
                        
                           003
                           M10 BOOKER
                           460,637
                           460,637
                        
                        
                           
                           
                              MODIFICATION OF TRACKED COMBAT VEHICLES
                           
                           
                           
                        
                        
                           004
                           STRYKER (MOD)
                           52,471
                           314,471
                        
                        
                           
                            Stryker Upgrade
                           
                           [262,000]
                        
                        
                           005
                           STRYKER UPGRADE
                           402,840
                           402,840
                        
                        
                           006
                           BRADLEY FIRE SUPPORT TEAM (BFIST) VEHICLE
                           7,255
                           7,255
                        
                        
                           007
                           BRADLEY PROGRAM (MOD)
                           106,937
                           106,937
                        
                        
                           008
                           M109 FOV MODIFICATIONS
                           42,574
                           42,574
                        
                        
                           009
                           PALADIN INTEGRATED MANAGEMENT (PIM)
                           417,741
                           419,741
                        
                        
                           
                            Paladin Integrated Management
                           
                           [2,000]
                        
                        
                           010
                           IMPROVED RECOVERY VEHICLE (M88 HERCULES)
                           151,657
                           151,657
                        
                        
                           011
                           JOINT ASSAULT BRIDGE
                           174,779
                           174,779
                        
                        
                           012
                           ABRAMS UPGRADE PROGRAM
                           773,745
                           848,745
                        
                        
                           
                            Abrams Upgrade
                           
                           [75,000]
                        
                        
                           
                           
                              WEAPONS &amp;amp; OTHER COMBAT VEHICLES
                           
                           
                           
                        
                        
                           014
                           PERSONAL DEFENSE WEAPON (ROLL)
                           4,869
                           4,869
                        
                        
                           015
                           M240 MEDIUM MACHINE GUN (7.62MM)
                           3
                           3
                        
                        
                           017
                           MACHINE GUN, CAL .50 M2 ROLL
                           3
                           3
                        
                        
                           018
                           MORTAR SYSTEMS
                           8,353
                           8,353
                        
                        
                           019
                           LOCATION &amp;amp; AZIMUTH DETERMINATION SYSTEM (LADS
                           2,543
                           2,543
                        
                        
                           020
                           XM320 GRENADE LAUNCHER MODULE (GLM)
                           17,747
                           17,747
                        
                        
                           021
                           PRECISION SNIPER RIFLE
                           5,910
                           3,410
                        
                        
                           
                            Forward financed in FY24
                           
                           [–2,500]
                        
                        
                           022
                           CARBINE
                           3
                           3
                        
                        
                           023
                           NEXT GENERATION SQUAD WEAPON
                           367,292
                           308,992
                        
                        
                           
                            XM157 excessive quantity growth
                           
                           [–58,300]
                        
                        
                           024
                           HANDGUN
                           34
                           34
                        
                        
                           
                           
                              MOD OF WEAPONS AND OTHER COMBAT VEH
                           
                           
                           
                        
                        
                           025
                           MK–19 GRENADE MACHINE GUN MODS
                           5,531
                           5,531
                        
                        
                           026
                           M777 MODS
                           25,998
                           25,998
                        
                        
                           029
                           M119 MODIFICATIONS
                           12,823
                           12,823
                        
                        
                           
                           
                              SUPPORT EQUIPMENT &amp;amp; FACILITIES
                           
                           
                           
                        
                        
                           031
                           ITEMS LESS THAN $5.0M (WOCV-WTCV)
                           1,031
                           1,031
                        
                        
                           032
                           PRODUCTION BASE SUPPORT (WOCV-WTCV)
                           135,591
                           135,591
                        
                        
                           
                           
                               TOTAL PROCUREMENT OF WEAPONS AND TRACKED COMBAT VEHICLES, ARMY
                           
                           
                              3,699,392
                           
                           
                              4,025,592
                           
                        
                        
                           
                           
                           
                           
                        
                        
                           
                           
                              PROCUREMENT OF AMMUNITION, ARMY
                           
                           
                           
                        
                        
                           
                           
                              SMALL/MEDIUM CAL AMMUNITION
                           
                           
                           
                        
                        
                           001
                           CTG, 5.56MM, ALL TYPES
                           84,090
                           84,090
                        
                        
                           002
                           CTG, 7.62MM, ALL TYPES
                           41,519
                           90,631
                        
                        
                           
                            Program increase
                           
                           [49,112]
                        
                        
                           003
                           NEXT GENERATION SQUAD WEAPON AMMUNITION
                           205,889
                           237,039
                        
                        
                           
                            6.8MM munitions—Army UPL
                           
                           [33,150]
                        
                        
                           
                            Excessive unit cost
                           
                           [–2,000]
                        
                        
                           004
                           CTG, HANDGUN, ALL TYPES
                           6,461
                           8,961
                        
                        
                           
                            Program increase
                           
                           [2,500]
                        
                        
                           005
                           CTG, .50 CAL, ALL TYPES
                           50,002
                           65,002
                        
                        
                           
                            Program increase
                           
                           [15,000]
                        
                        
                           006
                           CTG, 20MM, ALL TYPES
                           7,012
                           7,012
                        
                        
                           007
                           CTG, 25MM, ALL TYPES
                           24,246
                           24,246
                        
                        
                           008
                           CTG, 30MM, ALL TYPES
                           82,965
                           82,965
                        
                        
                           009
                           CTG, 40MM, ALL TYPES
                           150,540
                           150,540
                        
                        
                           010
                           CTG, 50MM, ALL TYPES
                           20,006
                           20,006
                        
                        
                           
                           
                              MORTAR AMMUNITION
                           
                           
                           
                        
                        
                           011
                           60MM MORTAR, ALL TYPES
                           40,853
                           37,853
                        
                        
                           
                            Excessive unit cost growth
                           
                           [–3,000]
                        
                        
                           012
                           81MM MORTAR, ALL TYPES
                           51,282
                           51,282
                        
                        
                           013
                           120MM MORTAR, ALL TYPES
                           109,370
                           105,370
                        
                        
                           
                            Excessive unit cost growth
                           
                           [–4,000]
                        
                        
                           
                           
                              TANK AMMUNITION
                           
                           
                           
                        
                        
                           014
                           CARTRIDGES, TANK, 105MM AND 120MM, ALL TYPES
                           378,191
                           378,191
                        
                        
                           
                           
                              ARTILLERY AMMUNITION
                           
                           
                           
                        
                        
                           015
                           ARTILLERY CARTRIDGES, 75MM &amp;amp; 105MM, ALL TYPES
                           22,957
                           22,957
                        
                        
                           016
                           ARTILLERY PROJECTILE, 155MM, ALL TYPES
                           171,657
                           163,657
                        
                        
                           
                            M231 Series (DA12) excessive cost growth
                           
                           [–8,000]
                        
                        
                           017
                           PRECISION ARTILLERY MUNITIONS
                           71,426
                           71,426
                        
                        
                           018
                           ARTILLERY PROPELLANTS, FUZES AND PRIMERS, ALL
                           160,479
                           160,479
                        
                        
                           
                           
                              MINES
                           
                           
                           
                        
                        
                           019
                           MINES &amp;amp; CLEARING CHARGES, ALL TYPES
                           56,032
                           56,032
                        
                        
                           020
                           CLOSE TERRAIN SHAPING OBSTACLE
                           15,303
                           15,303
                        
                        
                           021
                           MINE, AT, VOLCANO, ALL TYPES
                           501
                           501
                        
                        
                           
                           
                              ROCKETS
                           
                           
                           
                        
                        
                           022
                           SHOULDER LAUNCHED MUNITIONS, ALL TYPES
                           833
                           833
                        
                        
                           023
                           ROCKET, HYDRA 70, ALL TYPES
                           34,302
                           1,302
                        
                        
                           
                            Forward financed in FY24
                           
                           [–33,000]
                        
                        
                           
                           
                              OTHER AMMUNITION
                           
                           
                           
                        
                        
                           024
                           CAD/PAD, ALL TYPES
                           6,571
                           6,571
                        
                        
                           025
                           DEMOLITION MUNITIONS, ALL TYPES
                           21,682
                           21,682
                        
                        
                           026
                           GRENADES, ALL TYPES
                           32,623
                           30,123
                        
                        
                           
                            Forward financed in FY24
                           
                           [–2,500]
                        
                        
                           027
                           SIGNALS, ALL TYPES
                           21,510
                           21,510
                        
                        
                           028
                           SIMULATORS, ALL TYPES
                           12,168
                           12,168
                        
                        
                           
                           
                              MISCELLANEOUS
                           
                           
                           
                        
                        
                           030
                           AMMO COMPONENTS, ALL TYPES
                           4,085
                           4,085
                        
                        
                           032
                           ITEMS LESS THAN $5 MILLION (AMMO)
                           16,074
                           16,074
                        
                        
                           033
                           AMMUNITION PECULIAR EQUIPMENT
                           3,283
                           3,283
                        
                        
                           034
                           FIRST DESTINATION TRANSPORTATION (AMMO)
                           18,677
                           18,677
                        
                        
                           035
                           CLOSEOUT LIABILITIES
                           102
                           102
                        
                        
                           
                           
                              PRODUCTION BASE SUPPORT
                           
                           
                           
                        
                        
                           036
                           INDUSTRIAL FACILITIES
                           640,160
                           640,160
                        
                        
                           037
                           CONVENTIONAL MUNITIONS DEMILITARIZATION
                           135,649
                           121,649
                        
                        
                           
                            Excessive Demil
                           
                           [–14,000]
                        
                        
                           038
                           ARMS INITIATIVE
                           4,140
                           4,140
                        
                        
                           
                           
                               TOTAL PROCUREMENT OF AMMUNITION, ARMY
                           
                           
                              2,702,640
                           
                           
                              2,735,902
                           
                        
                        
                           
                           
                           
                           
                        
                        
                           
                           
                              OTHER PROCUREMENT, ARMY
                           
                           
                           
                        
                        
                           
                           
                              TACTICAL VEHICLES
                           
                           
                           
                        
                        
                           001
                           SEMITRAILERS, FLATBED:
                           26,132
                           26,132
                        
                        
                           002
                           SEMITRAILERS, TANKERS
                           59,602
                           59,602
                        
                        
                           003
                           HI MOB MULTI-PURP WHLD VEH (HMMWV)
                           5,265
                           5,265
                        
                        
                           004
                           GROUND MOBILITY VEHICLES (GMV)
                           34,407
                           44,407
                        
                        
                           
                            GMV- ISV procurement
                           
                           [10,000]
                        
                        
                           006
                           JOINT LIGHT TACTICAL VEHICLE FAMILY OF VEHICL
                           653,223
                           453,223
                        
                        
                           
                            Program decrease
                           
                           [–200,000]
                        
                        
                           007
                           TRUCK, DUMP, 20T (CCE)
                           19,086
                           49,086
                        
                        
                           
                            Heavy Dump Truck
                           
                           [30,000]
                        
                        
                           008
                           FAMILY OF MEDIUM TACTICAL VEH (FMTV)
                           133,924
                           133,924
                        
                        
                           009
                           FAMILY OF COLD WEATHER ALL-TERRAIN VEHICLE (C
                           72,760
                           72,760
                        
                        
                           010
                           FIRETRUCKS &amp;amp; ASSOCIATED FIREFIGHTING EQUIP
                           36,726
                           36,726
                        
                        
                           011
                           FAMILY OF HEAVY TACTICAL VEHICLES (FHTV)
                           98,906
                           98,906
                        
                        
                           012
                           PLS ESP
                           80,256
                           80,256
                        
                        
                           013
                           HVY EXPANDED MOBILE TACTICAL TRUCK EXT SERV
                           949
                           949
                        
                        
                           014
                           TACTICAL WHEELED VEHICLE PROTECTION KITS
                           2,747
                           2,747
                        
                        
                           015
                           MODIFICATION OF IN SVC EQUIP
                           169,726
                           244,726
                        
                        
                           
                            HMMWV ABS/ESC
                           
                           [75,000]
                        
                        
                           
                           
                              NON-TACTICAL VEHICLES
                           
                           
                           
                        
                        
                           016
                           PASSENGER CARRYING VEHICLES
                           3,875
                           3,875
                        
                        
                           017
                           NONTACTICAL VEHICLES, OTHER
                           10,792
                           10,792
                        
                        
                           
                           
                              COMM—JOINT COMMUNICATIONS
                           
                           
                           
                        
                        
                           018
                           SIGNAL MODERNIZATION PROGRAM
                           127,479
                           127,479
                        
                        
                           019
                           TACTICAL NETWORK TECHNOLOGY MOD IN SVC
                           280,798
                           280,798
                        
                        
                           021
                           JCSE EQUIPMENT (USRDECOM)
                           5,504
                           5,504
                        
                        
                           
                           
                              COMM—SATELLITE COMMUNICATIONS
                           
                           
                           
                        
                        
                           024
                           DEFENSE ENTERPRISE WIDEBAND SATCOM SYSTEMS
                           87,058
                           87,058
                        
                        
                           025
                           TRANSPORTABLE TACTICAL COMMAND COMMUNICATIONS
                           34,939
                           34,939
                        
                        
                           026
                           SHF TERM
                           43,897
                           43,897
                        
                        
                           027
                           ASSURED POSITIONING, NAVIGATION AND TIMING
                           235,272
                           235,272
                        
                        
                           028
                           EHF SATELLITE COMMUNICATION
                           16,028
                           16,028
                        
                        
                           030
                           GLOBAL BRDCST SVC—GBS
                           534
                           534
                        
                        
                           
                           
                              COMM—C3 SYSTEM
                           
                           
                           
                        
                        
                           032
                           COE TACTICAL SERVER INFRASTRUCTURE (TSI)
                           61,772
                           61,772
                        
                        
                           
                           
                              COMM—COMBAT COMMUNICATIONS
                           
                           
                           
                        
                        
                           033
                           HANDHELD MANPACK SMALL FORM FIT (HMS)
                           704,118
                           684,618
                        
                        
                           
                            Program decrease
                           
                           [–19,500]
                        
                        
                           034
                           ARMY LINK 16 SYSTEMS
                           104,320
                           104,320
                        
                        
                           036
                           UNIFIED COMMAND SUITE
                           20,445
                           20,445
                        
                        
                           037
                           COTS COMMUNICATIONS EQUIPMENT
                           489,754
                           464,554
                        
                        
                           
                            LCTRR—program decrease
                           
                           [–15,200]
                        
                        
                           
                            Program decrease
                           
                           [–10,000]
                        
                        
                           039
                           ARMY COMMUNICATIONS &amp;amp; ELECTRONICS
                           60,611
                           60,611
                        
                        
                           
                           
                              COMM—INTELLIGENCE COMM
                           
                           
                           
                        
                        
                           040
                           CI AUTOMATION ARCHITECTURE-INTEL
                           15,512
                           15,512
                        
                        
                           042
                           MULTI-DOMAIN INTELLIGENCE
                           163,077
                           163,077
                        
                        
                           
                           
                              INFORMATION SECURITY
                           
                           
                           
                        
                        
                           043
                           INFORMATION SYSTEM SECURITY PROGRAM-ISSP
                           337
                           337
                        
                        
                           044
                           COMMUNICATIONS SECURITY (COMSEC)
                           157,400
                           157,400
                        
                        
                           047
                           BIOMETRIC ENABLING CAPABILITY (BEC)
                           45
                           45
                        
                        
                           
                           
                              COMM—LONG HAUL COMMUNICATIONS
                           
                           
                           
                        
                        
                           049
                           BASE SUPPORT COMMUNICATIONS
                           26,446
                           26,446
                        
                        
                           
                           
                              COMM—BASE COMMUNICATIONS
                           
                           
                           
                        
                        
                           050
                           INFORMATION SYSTEMS
                           75,505
                           75,505
                        
                        
                           051
                           EMERGENCY MANAGEMENT MODERNIZATION PROGRAM
                           15,956
                           15,956
                        
                        
                           052
                           INSTALLATION INFO INFRASTRUCTURE MOD PROGRAM
                           150,779
                           150,779
                        
                        
                           
                           
                              ELECT EQUIP—TACT INT REL ACT (TIARA)
                           
                           
                           
                        
                        
                           056
                           JTT/CIBS-M
                           9,221
                           9,221
                        
                        
                           057
                           TERRESTRIAL LAYER SYSTEMS (TLS)
                           96,925
                           96,925
                        
                        
                           059
                           DCGS-A-INTEL
                           4,122
                           4,122
                        
                        
                           061
                           TROJAN
                           39,344
                           39,344
                        
                        
                           062
                           MOD OF IN-SVC EQUIP (INTEL SPT)
                           6,541
                           6,541
                        
                        
                           063
                           CI AND HUMINT INTELLIGENCE (HUMINT) CAPABILIT
                           3,899
                           3,899
                        
                        
                           064
                           BIOMETRIC TACTICAL COLLECTION DEVICES
                           2,089
                           2,089
                        
                        
                           
                           
                              ELECT EQUIP—ELECTRONIC WARFARE (EW)
                           
                           
                           
                        
                        
                           065
                           EW PLANNING &amp;amp; MANAGEMENT TOOLS (EWPMT)
                           26,327
                           0
                        
                        
                           
                            Award cancellation
                           
                           [–26,327]
                        
                        
                           066
                           AIR VIGILANCE (AV)
                           9,956
                           9,956
                        
                        
                           067
                           MULTI-FUNCTION ELECTRONIC WARFARE (MFEW) SYST
                           17,004
                           17,004
                        
                        
                           068
                           FAMILY OF PERSISTENT SURVEILLANCE CAP.
                           13,225
                           13,225
                        
                        
                           069
                           COUNTERINTELLIGENCE/SECURITY COUNTERMEASURES
                           20,951
                           20,951
                        
                        
                           070
                           CI MODERNIZATION
                           260
                           260
                        
                        
                           
                           
                              ELECT EQUIP—TACTICAL SURV. (TAC SURV)
                           
                           
                           
                        
                        
                           071
                           SENTINEL MODS
                           180,253
                           180,253
                        
                        
                           072
                           NIGHT VISION DEVICES
                           377,443
                           377,443
                        
                        
                           073
                           SMALL TACTICAL OPTICAL RIFLE MOUNTED MLRF
                           10,864
                           10,864
                        
                        
                           074
                           INDIRECT FIRE PROTECTION FAMILY OF SYSTEMS
                           63,122
                           63,122
                        
                        
                           075
                           FAMILY OF WEAPON SIGHTS (FWS)
                           207,352
                           207,352
                        
                        
                           076
                           ENHANCED PORTABLE INDUCTIVE ARTILLERY FUZE SE
                           2,971
                           2,971
                        
                        
                           077
                           FORWARD LOOKING INFRARED (IFLIR)
                           68,504
                           68,504
                        
                        
                           078
                           COUNTER SMALL UNMANNED AERIAL SYSTEM (C-SUAS)
                           280,086
                           445,541
                        
                        
                           
                            Army UPL #2
                           
                           [165,455]
                        
                        
                           079
                           JOINT BATTLE COMMAND—PLATFORM (JBC-P)
                           184,610
                           174,110
                        
                        
                           
                            Program decrease
                           
                           [–10,500]
                        
                        
                           080
                           JOINT EFFECTS TARGETING SYSTEM (JETS)
                           9,345
                           9,345
                        
                        
                           081
                           COMPUTER BALLISTICS: LHMBC XM32
                           2,966
                           2,966
                        
                        
                           082
                           MORTAR FIRE CONTROL SYSTEM
                           4,660
                           4,660
                        
                        
                           083
                           MORTAR FIRE CONTROL SYSTEMS MODIFICATIONS
                           6,098
                           6,098
                        
                        
                           084
                           COUNTERFIRE RADARS
                           21,250
                           21,250
                        
                        
                           
                           
                              ELECT EQUIP—TACTICAL C2 SYSTEMS
                           
                           
                           
                        
                        
                           085
                           ARMY COMMAND POST INTEGRATED INFRASTRUCTURE (
                           20,039
                           20,039
                        
                        
                           086
                           FIRE SUPPORT C2 FAMILY
                           16,240
                           16,240
                        
                        
                           087
                           AIR &amp;amp; MSL DEFENSE PLANNING &amp;amp; CONTROL SYS
                           80,011
                           80,011
                        
                        
                           088
                           IAMD BATTLE COMMAND SYSTEM
                           403,028
                           403,028
                        
                        
                           089
                           AIAMD FAMILY OF SYSTEMS (FOS) COMPONENTS
                           2,756
                           2,756
                        
                        
                           090
                           LIFE CYCLE SOFTWARE SUPPORT (LCSS)
                           5,360
                           5,360
                        
                        
                           091
                           NETWORK MANAGEMENT INITIALIZATION AND SERVICE
                           48,994
                           48,994
                        
                        
                           092
                           GLOBAL COMBAT SUPPORT SYSTEM-ARMY (GCSS-A)
                           4,103
                           4,103
                        
                        
                           093
                           INTEGRATED PERSONNEL AND PAY SYSTEM-ARMY (IPP
                           6,512
                           6,512
                        
                        
                           094
                           MOD OF IN-SVC EQUIPMENT (ENFIRE)
                           5,017
                           5,017
                        
                        
                           
                           
                              ELECT EQUIP—AUTOMATION
                           
                           
                           
                        
                        
                           095
                           ARMY TRAINING MODERNIZATION
                           10,065
                           10,065
                        
                        
                           096
                           AUTOMATED DATA PROCESSING EQUIP
                           78,613
                           78,613
                        
                        
                           097
                           ACCESSIONS INFORMATION ENVIRONMENT (AIE)
                           1,303
                           1,303
                        
                        
                           099
                           HIGH PERF COMPUTING MOD PGM (HPCMP)
                           76,327
                           76,327
                        
                        
                           100
                           CONTRACT WRITING SYSTEM
                           1,667
                           1,667
                        
                        
                           101
                           CSS COMMUNICATIONS
                           60,850
                           60,850
                        
                        
                           
                           
                              CLASSIFIED PROGRAMS
                           
                           
                           
                        
                        
                           102A
                           CLASSIFIED PROGRAMS
                           1,817
                           1,817
                        
                        
                           
                           
                              CHEMICAL DEFENSIVE EQUIPMENT
                           
                           
                           
                        
                        
                           104
                           BASE DEFENSE SYSTEMS (BDS)
                           32,879
                           32,879
                        
                        
                           105
                           CBRN DEFENSE
                           57,408
                           57,408
                        
                        
                           
                           
                              BRIDGING EQUIPMENT
                           
                           
                           
                        
                        
                           107
                           TACTICAL BRIDGE, FLOAT-RIBBON
                           97,231
                           97,231
                        
                        
                           
                           
                              ENGINEER (NON-CONSTRUCTION) EQUIPMENT
                           
                           
                           
                        
                        
                           111
                           ROBOTICS AND APPLIQUE SYSTEMS
                           62,469
                           78,469
                        
                        
                           
                            Silent Tactical Energy Enhanced Dismount (STEED)
                           
                           [16,000]
                        
                        
                           112
                           RENDER SAFE SETS KITS OUTFITS
                           16,440
                           16,440
                        
                        
                           113
                           FAMILY OF BOATS AND MOTORS
                           1,922
                           1,922
                        
                        
                           
                           
                              COMBAT SERVICE SUPPORT EQUIPMENT
                           
                           
                           
                        
                        
                           114
                           HEATERS AND ECU'S
                           14,355
                           14,355
                        
                        
                           115
                           PERSONNEL RECOVERY SUPPORT SYSTEM (PRSS)
                           6,503
                           6,503
                        
                        
                           116
                           GROUND SOLDIER SYSTEM
                           141,613
                           128,746
                        
                        
                           
                            Program decrease
                           
                           [–12,867]
                        
                        
                           117
                           MOBILE SOLDIER POWER
                           23,129
                           23,129
                        
                        
                           118
                           FORCE PROVIDER
                           9,569
                           9,569
                        
                        
                           119
                           CARGO AERIAL DEL &amp;amp; PERSONNEL PARACHUTE SYSTEM
                           46,312
                           46,312
                        
                        
                           120
                           FAMILY OF ENGR COMBAT AND CONSTRUCTION SETS
                           9,217
                           9,217
                        
                        
                           
                           
                              PETROLEUM EQUIPMENT
                           
                           
                           
                        
                        
                           122
                           QUALITY SURVEILLANCE EQUIPMENT
                           2,879
                           2,879
                        
                        
                           123
                           DISTRIBUTION SYSTEMS, PETROLEUM &amp;amp; WATER
                           57,050
                           57,050
                        
                        
                           
                           
                              MEDICAL EQUIPMENT
                           
                           
                           
                        
                        
                           124
                           COMBAT SUPPORT MEDICAL
                           72,157
                           72,157
                        
                        
                           
                           
                              MAINTENANCE EQUIPMENT
                           
                           
                           
                        
                        
                           125
                           MOBILE MAINTENANCE EQUIPMENT SYSTEMS
                           26,271
                           26,271
                        
                        
                           
                           
                              CONSTRUCTION EQUIPMENT
                           
                           
                           
                        
                        
                           127
                           ALL TERRAIN CRANES
                           114
                           2,114
                        
                        
                           
                            All Terrain Cranes
                           
                           [2,000]
                        
                        
                           128
                           HIGH MOBILITY ENGINEER EXCAVATOR (HMEE)
                           31,663
                           31,663
                        
                        
                           130
                           CONST EQUIP ESP
                           8,925
                           8,925
                        
                        
                           
                           
                              RAIL FLOAT CONTAINERIZATION EQUIPMENT
                           
                           
                           
                        
                        
                           131
                           ARMY WATERCRAFT ESP
                           55,459
                           55,459
                        
                        
                           132
                           MANEUVER SUPPORT VESSEL (MSV)
                           66,634
                           66,634
                        
                        
                           133
                           ITEMS LESS THAN $5.0M (FLOAT/RAIL)
                           20,036
                           20,036
                        
                        
                           
                           
                              GENERATORS
                           
                           
                           
                        
                        
                           134
                           GENERATORS AND ASSOCIATED EQUIP
                           81,540
                           81,540
                        
                        
                           135
                           TACTICAL ELECTRIC POWER RECAPITALIZATION
                           12,051
                           12,051
                        
                        
                           
                           
                              MATERIAL HANDLING EQUIPMENT
                           
                           
                           
                        
                        
                           136
                           FAMILY OF FORKLIFTS
                           7,849
                           7,849
                        
                        
                           
                           
                              TRAINING EQUIPMENT
                           
                           
                           
                        
                        
                           137
                           COMBAT TRAINING CENTERS SUPPORT
                           40,686
                           40,686
                        
                        
                           138
                           TRAINING DEVICES, NONSYSTEM
                           174,890
                           174,890
                        
                        
                           139
                           SYNTHETIC TRAINING ENVIRONMENT (STE)
                           218,183
                           196,363
                        
                        
                           
                            Synthetic Training Environment
                           
                           [–21,820]
                        
                        
                           140
                           GAMING TECHNOLOGY IN SUPPORT OF ARMY TRAINING
                           10,172
                           10,172
                        
                        
                           
                           
                              TEST MEASURE AND DIG EQUIPMENT (TMD)
                           
                           
                           
                        
                        
                           141
                           INTEGRATED FAMILY OF TEST EQUIPMENT (IFTE)
                           48,329
                           48,329
                        
                        
                           142
                           TEST EQUIPMENT MODERNIZATION (TEMOD)
                           46,128
                           46,128
                        
                        
                           
                           
                              OTHER SUPPORT EQUIPMENT
                           
                           
                           
                        
                        
                           143
                           PHYSICAL SECURITY SYSTEMS (OPA3)
                           138,459
                           138,459
                        
                        
                           144
                           BASE LEVEL COMMON EQUIPMENT
                           29,968
                           29,968
                        
                        
                           145
                           MODIFICATION OF IN-SVC EQUIPMENT (OPA–3)
                           42,487
                           42,487
                        
                        
                           146
                           BUILDING, PRE-FAB, RELOCATABLE
                           26,980
                           26,980
                        
                        
                           147
                           SPECIAL EQUIPMENT FOR TEST AND EVALUATION
                           90,705
                           90,705
                        
                        
                           
                           
                              OPA2
                           
                           
                           
                        
                        
                           149
                           INITIAL SPARES—C&amp;amp;E
                           9,810
                           9,810
                        
                        
                           
                           
                               TOTAL OTHER PROCUREMENT, ARMY
                           
                           
                              8,616,524
                           
                           
                              8,598,765
                           
                        
                        
                           
                           
                           
                           
                        
                        
                           
                           
                              AIRCRAFT PROCUREMENT, NAVY
                           
                           
                           
                        
                        
                           
                           
                              COMBAT AIRCRAFT
                           
                           
                           
                        
                        
                           001
                           F/A–18E/F (FIGHTER) HORNET
                           28,554
                           28,554
                        
                        
                           002
                           JOINT STRIKE FIGHTER CV
                           1,895,033
                           1,695,033
                        
                        
                           
                            Correction of F–35 program deficiencies
                           
                           [–200,000]
                        
                        
                           003
                           JOINT STRIKE FIGHTER CV AP
                           196,634
                           196,634
                        
                        
                           004
                           JSF STOVL
                           2,078,225
                           1,878,225
                        
                        
                           
                            Correction of F–35 program deficiencies
                           
                           [–200,000]
                        
                        
                           005
                           JSF STOVL AP
                           169,389
                           169,389
                        
                        
                           006
                           CH–53K (HEAVY LIFT)
                           2,068,657
                           2,068,657
                        
                        
                           007
                           CH–53K (HEAVY LIFT) AP
                           422,972
                           422,972
                        
                        
                           008
                           V–22 (MEDIUM LIFT)
                           60,175
                           60,175
                        
                        
                           009
                           H–1 UPGRADES (UH–1Y/AH–1Z)
                           8,701
                           8,701
                        
                        
                           010
                           P–8A POSEIDON
                           12,424
                           12,424
                        
                        
                           011
                           E–2D ADV HAWKEYE
                           197,669
                           77,769
                        
                        
                           
                            Production line shutdown early to need
                           
                           [–119,900]
                        
                        
                           
                           
                              TRAINER AIRCRAFT
                           
                           
                           
                        
                        
                           012
                           MULTI-ENGINE TRAINING SYSTEM (METS)
                           301,303
                           301,303
                        
                        
                           
                           
                              OTHER AIRCRAFT
                           
                           
                           
                        
                        
                           014
                           KC–130J
                           33,406
                           233,406
                        
                        
                           
                            USN Reserve K-C130J recapitalization program
                           
                           [200,000]
                        
                        
                           016
                           MQ–4 TRITON
                           159,226
                           159,226
                        
                        
                           020
                           MQ–25
                           501,683
                           501,683
                        
                        
                           021
                           MQ–25 AP
                           51,344
                           51,344
                        
                        
                           022
                           MARINE GROUP 5 UAS
                           19,081
                           19,081
                        
                        
                           
                           
                              MODIFICATION OF AIRCRAFT
                           
                           
                           
                        
                        
                           023
                           F–18 A-D UNIQUE
                           92,765
                           92,765
                        
                        
                           024
                           F–18E/F AND EA–18G MODERNIZATION AND SUSTAINM
                           566,727
                           566,727
                        
                        
                           025
                           MARINE GROUP 5 UAS SERIES
                           112,672
                           112,672
                        
                        
                           026
                           AEA SYSTEMS
                           17,460
                           17,460
                        
                        
                           027
                           AV–8 SERIES
                           3,584
                           3,584
                        
                        
                           028
                           INFRARED SEARCH AND TRACK (IRST)
                           146,876
                           146,876
                        
                        
                           029
                           ADVERSARY
                           49,724
                           49,724
                        
                        
                           030
                           F–18 SERIES
                           680,613
                           680,613
                        
                        
                           031
                           H–53 SERIES
                           107,247
                           107,247
                        
                        
                           032
                           MH–60 SERIES
                           108,072
                           108,072
                        
                        
                           033
                           H–1 SERIES
                           153,006
                           153,006
                        
                        
                           035
                           E–2 SERIES
                           148,060
                           148,060
                        
                        
                           036
                           TRAINER A/C SERIES
                           12,415
                           12,415
                        
                        
                           037
                           C–130 SERIES
                           188,119
                           188,119
                        
                        
                           038
                           FEWSG
                           663
                           663
                        
                        
                           039
                           CARGO/TRANSPORT A/C SERIES
                           13,162
                           13,162
                        
                        
                           040
                           E–6 SERIES
                           142,368
                           142,368
                        
                        
                           041
                           EXECUTIVE HELICOPTERS SERIES
                           69,495
                           69,495
                        
                        
                           042
                           T–45 SERIES
                           158,800
                           158,800
                        
                        
                           043
                           POWER PLANT CHANGES
                           16,806
                           16,806
                        
                        
                           044
                           JPATS SERIES
                           24,157
                           24,157
                        
                        
                           045
                           AVIATION LIFE SUPPORT MODS
                           3,964
                           3,964
                        
                        
                           046
                           COMMON ECM EQUIPMENT
                           52,791
                           52,791
                        
                        
                           047
                           COMMON AVIONICS CHANGES
                           139,113
                           139,113
                        
                        
                           048
                           COMMON DEFENSIVE WEAPON SYSTEM
                           10,687
                           10,687
                        
                        
                           049
                           ID SYSTEMS
                           7,020
                           7,020
                        
                        
                           050
                           P–8 SERIES
                           307,202
                           307,202
                        
                        
                           051
                           MAGTF EW FOR AVIATION
                           25,597
                           25,597
                        
                        
                           053
                           V–22 (TILT/ROTOR ACFT) OSPREY
                           235,062
                           360,062
                        
                        
                           
                            Safety Enhancements
                           
                           [125,000]
                        
                        
                           054
                           NEXT GENERATION JAMMER (NGJ)
                           453,226
                           453,226
                        
                        
                           055
                           F–35 STOVL SERIES
                           282,987
                           282,987
                        
                        
                           056
                           F–35 CV SERIES
                           183,924
                           183,924
                        
                        
                           057
                           QRC
                           26,957
                           26,957
                        
                        
                           058
                           MQ–4 SERIES
                           122,044
                           122,044
                        
                        
                           
                           
                              AIRCRAFT SPARES AND REPAIR PARTS
                           
                           
                           
                        
                        
                           063
                           SPARES AND REPAIR PARTS
                           2,094,242
                           2,094,242
                        
                        
                           
                           
                              AIRCRAFT SUPPORT EQUIP &amp;amp; FACILITIES
                           
                           
                           
                        
                        
                           064
                           COMMON GROUND EQUIPMENT
                           572,806
                           572,806
                        
                        
                           065
                           AIRCRAFT INDUSTRIAL FACILITIES
                           105,634
                           105,634
                        
                        
                           066
                           WAR CONSUMABLES
                           43,604
                           43,604
                        
                        
                           067
                           OTHER PRODUCTION CHARGES
                           73,307
                           73,307
                        
                        
                           068
                           SPECIAL SUPPORT EQUIPMENT
                           456,816
                           456,816
                        
                        
                           
                           
                               TOTAL AIRCRAFT PROCUREMENT, NAVY
                           
                           
                              16,214,250
                           
                           
                              16,019,350
                           
                        
                        
                           
                           
                           
                           
                        
                        
                           
                           
                              WEAPONS PROCUREMENT, NAVY
                           
                           
                           
                        
                        
                           
                           
                              MODIFICATION OF MISSILES
                           
                           
                           
                        
                        
                           002
                           TRIDENT II MODS
                           1,793,867
                           1,793,867
                        
                        
                           
                           
                              SUPPORT EQUIPMENT &amp;amp; FACILITIES
                           
                           
                           
                        
                        
                           003
                           MISSILE INDUSTRIAL FACILITIES
                           8,133
                           8,133
                        
                        
                           
                           
                              STRATEGIC MISSILES
                           
                           
                           
                        
                        
                           004
                           TOMAHAWK
                           32,677
                           32,677
                        
                        
                           
                           
                              TACTICAL MISSILES
                           
                           
                           
                        
                        
                           005
                           AMRAAM
                           279,626
                           279,626
                        
                        
                           006
                           SIDEWINDER
                           86,023
                           86,023
                        
                        
                           007
                           STANDARD MISSILE
                           627,386
                           627,386
                        
                        
                           008
                           STANDARD MISSILE AP
                           127,830
                           127,830
                        
                        
                           009
                           SMALL DIAMETER BOMB II
                           76,108
                           76,108
                        
                        
                           010
                           RAM
                           141,021
                           141,021
                        
                        
                           011
                           JOINT AIR GROUND MISSILE (JAGM)
                           76,838
                           76,838
                        
                        
                           013
                           AERIAL TARGETS
                           182,463
                           182,463
                        
                        
                           014
                           OTHER MISSILE SUPPORT
                           3,411
                           3,411
                        
                        
                           015
                           LRASM
                           326,435
                           326,435
                        
                        
                           016
                           NAVAL STRIKE MISSILE (NSM)
                           24,882
                           24,882
                        
                        
                           017
                           NAVAL STRIKE MISSILE (NSM) AP
                           4,412
                           4,412
                        
                        
                           
                           
                              MODIFICATION OF MISSILES
                           
                           
                           
                        
                        
                           018
                           TOMAHAWK MODS
                           317,839
                           317,839
                        
                        
                           019
                           ESSM
                           652,391
                           634,391
                        
                        
                           
                            Program delay
                           
                           [–18,000]
                        
                        
                           020
                           AARGM-ER
                           213,988
                           213,988
                        
                        
                           021
                           AARGM-ER AP
                           34,604
                           34,604
                        
                        
                           022
                           STANDARD MISSILES MODS
                           75,667
                           75,667
                        
                        
                           
                           
                              SUPPORT EQUIPMENT &amp;amp; FACILITIES
                           
                           
                           
                        
                        
                           023
                           WEAPONS INDUSTRIAL FACILITIES
                           1,490
                           1,490
                        
                        
                           
                           
                              ORDNANCE SUPPORT EQUIPMENT
                           
                           
                           
                        
                        
                           026
                           ORDNANCE SUPPORT EQUIPMENT
                           351,488
                           351,488
                        
                        
                           
                           
                              TORPEDOES AND RELATED EQUIP
                           
                           
                           
                        
                        
                           027
                           SSTD
                           4,317
                           4,317
                        
                        
                           028
                           MK–48 TORPEDO
                           333,147
                           333,147
                        
                        
                           029
                           ASW TARGETS
                           30,476
                           30,476
                        
                        
                           
                           
                              MOD OF TORPEDOES AND RELATED EQUIP
                           
                           
                           
                        
                        
                           030
                           MK–54 TORPEDO MODS
                           106,249
                           106,249
                        
                        
                           031
                           MK–48 TORPEDO ADCAP MODS
                           17,363
                           17,363
                        
                        
                           032
                           MARITIME MINES
                           100,065
                           80,065
                        
                        
                           
                            Excessive cost growth
                           
                           [–20,000]
                        
                        
                           
                           
                              SUPPORT EQUIPMENT
                           
                           
                           
                        
                        
                           033
                           TORPEDO SUPPORT EQUIPMENT
                           151,809
                           151,809
                        
                        
                           034
                           ASW RANGE SUPPORT
                           4,039
                           4,039
                        
                        
                           
                           
                              DESTINATION TRANSPORTATION
                           
                           
                           
                        
                        
                           035
                           FIRST DESTINATION TRANSPORTATION
                           5,669
                           5,669
                        
                        
                           
                           
                              GUNS AND GUN MOUNTS
                           
                           
                           
                        
                        
                           036
                           SMALL ARMS AND WEAPONS
                           12,513
                           12,513
                        
                        
                           
                           
                              MODIFICATION OF GUNS AND GUN MOUNTS
                           
                           
                           
                        
                        
                           037
                           CIWS MODS
                           4,266
                           4,266
                        
                        
                           038
                           COAST GUARD WEAPONS
                           54,794
                           54,794
                        
                        
                           039
                           GUN MOUNT MODS
                           82,246
                           82,246
                        
                        
                           040
                           LCS MODULE WEAPONS
                           2,463
                           2,463
                        
                        
                           041
                           AIRBORNE MINE NEUTRALIZATION SYSTEMS
                           11,635
                           11,635
                        
                        
                           
                           
                              SPARES AND REPAIR PARTS
                           
                           
                           
                        
                        
                           043
                           SPARES AND REPAIR PARTS
                           240,697
                           240,697
                        
                        
                           
                           
                               TOTAL WEAPONS PROCUREMENT, NAVY
                           
                           
                              6,600,327
                           
                           
                              6,562,327
                           
                        
                        
                           
                           
                           
                           
                        
                        
                           
                           
                              PROCUREMENT OF AMMUNITION, NAVY AND MARINE CORPS
                           
                           
                           
                        
                        
                           
                           
                              NAVY AMMUNITION
                           
                           
                           
                        
                        
                           001
                           GENERAL PURPOSE BOMBS
                           33,161
                           33,161
                        
                        
                           002
                           JDAM
                           75,134
                           75,134
                        
                        
                           003
                           AIRBORNE ROCKETS, ALL TYPES
                           58,197
                           58,197
                        
                        
                           004
                           MACHINE GUN AMMUNITION
                           12,501
                           12,501
                        
                        
                           005
                           PRACTICE BOMBS
                           56,745
                           56,745
                        
                        
                           006
                           CARTRIDGES &amp;amp; CART ACTUATED DEVICES
                           73,782
                           73,782
                        
                        
                           007
                           AIR EXPENDABLE COUNTERMEASURES
                           75,416
                           75,416
                        
                        
                           008
                           JATOS
                           7,407
                           7,407
                        
                        
                           009
                           5 INCH/54 GUN AMMUNITION
                           29,990
                           23,990
                        
                        
                           
                            Underexecution
                           
                           [–6,000]
                        
                        
                           010
                           INTERMEDIATE CALIBER GUN AMMUNITION
                           40,089
                           40,089
                        
                        
                           011
                           OTHER SHIP GUN AMMUNITION
                           41,223
                           41,223
                        
                        
                           012
                           SMALL ARMS &amp;amp; LANDING PARTY AMMO
                           47,269
                           47,269
                        
                        
                           013
                           PYROTECHNIC AND DEMOLITION
                           9,703
                           9,703
                        
                        
                           015
                           AMMUNITION LESS THAN $5 MILLION
                           1,703
                           1,703
                        
                        
                           016
                           EXPEDITIONARY LOITERING MUNITIONS
                           588,005
                           362,766
                        
                        
                           
                            Contract execution
                           
                           [–225,239]
                        
                        
                           
                           
                              MARINE CORPS AMMUNITION
                           
                           
                           
                        
                        
                           017
                           MORTARS
                           127,726
                           127,726
                        
                        
                           018
                           DIRECT SUPPORT MUNITIONS
                           43,769
                           43,769
                        
                        
                           019
                           INFANTRY WEAPONS AMMUNITION
                           266,277
                           266,277
                        
                        
                           020
                           COMBAT SUPPORT MUNITIONS
                           21,726
                           21,726
                        
                        
                           021
                           AMMO MODERNIZATION
                           18,211
                           18,211
                        
                        
                           022
                           ARTILLERY MUNITIONS
                           114,684
                           82,059
                        
                        
                           
                            Excess 155mm M795 munitions
                           
                           [–10,025]
                        
                        
                           
                            Excess M232A1 MACS munitions
                           
                           [–22,600]
                        
                        
                           023
                           ITEMS LESS THAN $5 MILLION
                           5,165
                           5,165
                        
                        
                           
                           
                               TOTAL PROCUREMENT OF AMMUNITION, NAVY AND MARINE CORPS
                           
                           
                              1,747,883
                           
                           
                              1,484,019
                           
                        
                        
                           
                           
                           
                           
                        
                        
                           
                           
                              SHIPBUILDING AND CONVERSION, NAVY
                           
                           
                           
                        
                        
                           
                           
                              FLEET BALLISTIC MISSILE SHIPS
                           
                           
                           
                        
                        
                           001
                           COLUMBIA CLASS SUBMARINE
                           3,341,235
                           3,341,235
                        
                        
                           002
                           COLUMBIA CLASS SUBMARINE AP
                           6,215,939
                           6,215,939
                        
                        
                           
                           
                              OTHER WARSHIPS
                           
                           
                           
                        
                        
                           003
                           CARRIER REPLACEMENT PROGRAM
                           1,186,873
                           1,086,873
                        
                        
                           
                            Advance Procurement for CVN 82 and 83
                           
                           [100,000]
                        
                        
                           
                            Rephasing of incremental funding
                           
                           [–200,000]
                        
                        
                           004
                           CVN–81
                           721,045
                           721,045
                        
                        
                           005
                           VIRGINIA CLASS SUBMARINE
                           3,615,904
                           4,315,904
                        
                        
                           
                            Cost growth
                           
                           [–300,000]
                        
                        
                           
                            One additional ship
                           
                           [1,000,000]
                        
                        
                           006
                           VIRGINIA CLASS SUBMARINE AP
                           3,720,303
                           3,720,303
                        
                        
                           007
                           CVN REFUELING OVERHAULS
                           1,061,143
                           861,143
                        
                        
                           
                            Late contract award
                           
                           [–200,000]
                        
                        
                           009
                           DDG 1000
                           61,100
                           61,100
                        
                        
                           010
                           DDG–51
                           4,725,819
                           4,775,819
                        
                        
                           
                            Large Surface Combatant Shipyard Infrastructure
                           
                           [50,000]
                        
                        
                           010A
                           DDG–51
                           759,563
                           759,563
                        
                        
                           010A
                           DDG–51
                           923,808
                           923,808
                        
                        
                           011
                           DDG–51 AP
                           41,724
                           41,724
                        
                        
                           013
                           FFG-FRIGATE
                           1,170,442
                           0
                        
                        
                           
                            Program delay
                           
                           [–1,170,442]
                        
                        
                           013A
                           FFG-FRIGATE AP
                           
                           37,500
                        
                        
                           
                            Frigate industrial base and workforce development
                           
                           [37,500]
                        
                        
                           
                           
                              AMPHIBIOUS SHIPS
                           
                           
                           
                        
                        
                           014
                           LPD FLIGHT II
                           1,561,963
                           1,561,963
                        
                        
                           019
                           LHA REPLACEMENT AP
                           61,118
                           61,118
                        
                        
                           021
                           MEDIUM LANDING SHIP
                           268,068
                           268,068
                        
                        
                           
                           
                              AUXILIARIES, CRAFT AND PRIOR YR PROGRAM COST
                           
                           
                           
                        
                        
                           024
                           TOWING, SALVAGE, AND RESCUE SHIP (ATS)
                           
                           60,000
                        
                        
                           
                            Cost to complete
                           
                           [60,000]
                        
                        
                           027
                           OUTFITTING
                           674,600
                           674,600
                        
                        
                           029
                           SERVICE CRAFT
                           11,426
                           41,426
                        
                        
                           
                            Additional YRBM
                           
                           [30,000]
                        
                        
                           030
                           AUXILIARY PERSONNEL LIGHTER
                           76,168
                           76,168
                        
                        
                           031
                           LCAC SLEP
                           45,087
                           45,087
                        
                        
                           032
                           AUXILIARY VESSELS (USED SEALIFT)
                           204,939
                           141,939
                        
                        
                           
                            Cost growth
                           
                           [–63,000]
                        
                        
                           033
                           COMPLETION OF PY SHIPBUILDING PROGRAMS
                           1,930,024
                           1,930,024
                        
                        
                           
                           
                               TOTAL SHIPBUILDING AND CONVERSION, NAVY
                           
                           
                              32,378,291
                           
                           
                              31,722,349
                           
                        
                        
                           
                           
                           
                           
                        
                        
                           
                           
                              OTHER PROCUREMENT, NAVY
                           
                           
                           
                        
                        
                           
                           
                              SHIP PROPULSION EQUIPMENT
                           
                           
                           
                        
                        
                           001
                           SURFACE POWER EQUIPMENT
                           20,840
                           20,840
                        
                        
                           
                           
                              GENERATORS
                           
                           
                           
                        
                        
                           002
                           SURFACE COMBATANT HM&amp;amp;E
                           82,937
                           82,937
                        
                        
                           
                           
                              NAVIGATION EQUIPMENT
                           
                           
                           
                        
                        
                           003
                           OTHER NAVIGATION EQUIPMENT
                           102,288
                           102,288
                        
                        
                           
                           
                              OTHER SHIPBOARD EQUIPMENT
                           
                           
                           
                        
                        
                           004
                           SUB PERISCOPE, IMAGING AND SUPT EQUIP PROG
                           294,625
                           294,625
                        
                        
                           005
                           DDG MOD
                           861,066
                           801,066
                        
                        
                           
                            Excessive cost growth
                           
                           [–60,000]
                        
                        
                           
                            Program decrease
                           
                           [–5,000]
                        
                        
                           
                            Water Purification
                           
                           [5,000]
                        
                        
                           006
                           FIREFIGHTING EQUIPMENT
                           38,521
                           38,521
                        
                        
                           007
                           COMMAND AND CONTROL SWITCHBOARD
                           2,402
                           2,402
                        
                        
                           008
                           LHA/LHD MIDLIFE
                           81,602
                           81,602
                        
                        
                           009
                           LCC 19/20 EXTENDED SERVICE LIFE PROGRAM
                           7,352
                           7,352
                        
                        
                           010
                           POLLUTION CONTROL EQUIPMENT
                           23,440
                           23,440
                        
                        
                           011
                           SUBMARINE SUPPORT EQUIPMENT
                           293,766
                           273,766
                        
                        
                           
                            Excessive cost growth
                           
                           [–20,000]
                        
                        
                           012
                           VIRGINIA CLASS SUPPORT EQUIPMENT
                           43,565
                           43,565
                        
                        
                           013
                           LCS CLASS SUPPORT EQUIPMENT
                           7,318
                           7,318
                        
                        
                           014
                           SUBMARINE BATTERIES
                           30,470
                           30,470
                        
                        
                           015
                           LPD CLASS SUPPORT EQUIPMENT
                           38,115
                           38,115
                        
                        
                           016
                           DDG 1000 CLASS SUPPORT EQUIPMENT
                           407,468
                           357,468
                        
                        
                           
                            Excessive cost growth
                           
                           [–50,000]
                        
                        
                           017
                           STRATEGIC PLATFORM SUPPORT EQUIP
                           53,931
                           43,931
                        
                        
                           
                            Excessive cost growth
                           
                           [–10,000]
                        
                        
                           018
                           DSSP EQUIPMENT
                           4,586
                           4,586
                        
                        
                           020
                           LCAC
                           11,013
                           11,013
                        
                        
                           021
                           UNDERWATER EOD EQUIPMENT
                           16,650
                           16,650
                        
                        
                           022
                           ITEMS LESS THAN $5 MILLION
                           66,351
                           66,351
                        
                        
                           023
                           CHEMICAL WARFARE DETECTORS
                           3,254
                           3,254
                        
                        
                           
                           
                              REACTOR PLANT EQUIPMENT
                           
                           
                           
                        
                        
                           024
                           SHIP MAINTENANCE, REPAIR AND MODERNIZATION
                           2,392,190
                           2,397,190
                        
                        
                           
                            Water Purification
                           
                           [5,000]
                        
                        
                           026
                           REACTOR COMPONENTS
                           445,974
                           445,974
                        
                        
                           
                           
                              OCEAN ENGINEERING
                           
                           
                           
                        
                        
                           027
                           DIVING AND SALVAGE EQUIPMENT
                           17,499
                           17,499
                        
                        
                           
                           
                              SMALL BOATS
                           
                           
                           
                        
                        
                           028
                           STANDARD BOATS
                           400,892
                           275,892
                        
                        
                           
                            Additional 40-foot patrol boats
                           
                           [12,000]
                        
                        
                           
                            Insufficient justification
                           
                           [–125,000]
                        
                        
                           
                            Program decrease
                           
                           [–12,000]
                        
                        
                           
                           
                              PRODUCTION FACILITIES EQUIPMENT
                           
                           
                           
                        
                        
                           029
                           OPERATING FORCES IPE
                           237,036
                           229,536
                        
                        
                           
                            Excessive cost growth
                           
                           [–25,000]
                        
                        
                           
                            INDOPACOM Mission Network—INDOPACOM UPL
                           
                           [17,500]
                        
                        
                           
                           
                              OTHER SHIP SUPPORT
                           
                           
                           
                        
                        
                           030
                           LCS COMMON MISSION MODULES EQUIPMENT
                           56,105
                           56,105
                        
                        
                           031
                           LCS MCM MISSION MODULES
                           118,247
                           98,247
                        
                        
                           
                            Insufficient justification
                           
                           [–20,000]
                        
                        
                           033
                           LCS SUW MISSION MODULES
                           11,101
                           7,701
                        
                        
                           
                            LCS SUW MM
                           
                           [–3,400]
                        
                        
                           034
                           LCS IN-SERVICE MODERNIZATION
                           205,571
                           160,571
                        
                        
                           
                            Insufficient justification
                           
                           [–30,000]
                        
                        
                           
                            Unjustified request
                           
                           [–15,000]
                        
                        
                           035
                           SMALL &amp;amp; MEDIUM UUV
                           48,780
                           63,780
                        
                        
                           
                            Torpedo tube launch and recovery capable UUVs
                           
                           [15,000]
                        
                        
                           
                           
                              LOGISTIC SUPPORT
                           
                           
                           
                        
                        
                           036
                           LSD MIDLIFE &amp;amp; MODERNIZATION
                           56,667
                           56,667
                        
                        
                           
                           
                              SHIP SONARS
                           
                           
                           
                        
                        
                           037
                           SPQ–9B RADAR
                           7,402
                           7,402
                        
                        
                           038
                           AN/SQQ–89 SURF ASW COMBAT SYSTEM
                           134,637
                           134,637
                        
                        
                           039
                           SSN ACOUSTIC EQUIPMENT
                           502,115
                           487,115
                        
                        
                           
                            Excessive cost growth
                           
                           [–15,000]
                        
                        
                           040
                           UNDERSEA WARFARE SUPPORT EQUIPMENT
                           16,731
                           16,731
                        
                        
                           
                           
                              ASW ELECTRONIC EQUIPMENT
                           
                           
                           
                        
                        
                           041
                           SUBMARINE ACOUSTIC WARFARE SYSTEM
                           55,484
                           55,484
                        
                        
                           042
                           SSTD
                           9,647
                           9,647
                        
                        
                           043
                           FIXED SURVEILLANCE SYSTEM
                           405,854
                           405,854
                        
                        
                           044
                           SURTASS
                           45,975
                           45,975
                        
                        
                           
                           
                              ELECTRONIC WARFARE EQUIPMENT
                           
                           
                           
                        
                        
                           045
                           AN/SLQ–32
                           184,349
                           184,349
                        
                        
                           
                           
                              RECONNAISSANCE EQUIPMENT
                           
                           
                           
                        
                        
                           046
                           SHIPBOARD IW EXPLOIT
                           362,099
                           362,099
                        
                        
                           047
                           AUTOMATED IDENTIFICATION SYSTEM (AIS)
                           4,680
                           4,680
                        
                        
                           
                           
                              OTHER SHIP ELECTRONIC EQUIPMENT
                           
                           
                           
                        
                        
                           048
                           COOPERATIVE ENGAGEMENT CAPABILITY
                           26,644
                           26,644
                        
                        
                           049
                           NAVAL TACTICAL COMMAND SUPPORT SYSTEM (NTCSS)
                           13,614
                           13,614
                        
                        
                           050
                           ATDLS
                           68,458
                           68,458
                        
                        
                           051
                           NAVY COMMAND AND CONTROL SYSTEM (NCCS)
                           3,645
                           3,645
                        
                        
                           052
                           MINESWEEPING SYSTEM REPLACEMENT
                           16,812
                           16,812
                        
                        
                           053
                           NAVSTAR GPS RECEIVERS (SPACE)
                           41,458
                           41,458
                        
                        
                           054
                           AMERICAN FORCES RADIO AND TV SERVICE
                           3,803
                           3,803
                        
                        
                           
                           
                              AVIATION ELECTRONIC EQUIPMENT
                           
                           
                           
                        
                        
                           056
                           ASHORE ATC EQUIPMENT
                           90,586
                           90,586
                        
                        
                           057
                           AFLOAT ATC EQUIPMENT
                           75,508
                           75,508
                        
                        
                           058
                           ID SYSTEMS
                           59,602
                           59,602
                        
                        
                           059
                           JOINT PRECISION APPROACH AND LANDING SYSTEM (
                           7,287
                           7,287
                        
                        
                           060
                           NAVAL MISSION PLANNING SYSTEMS
                           46,106
                           36,106
                        
                        
                           
                            Excessive cost growth
                           
                           [–10,000]
                        
                        
                           
                           
                              OTHER SHORE ELECTRONIC EQUIPMENT
                           
                           
                           
                        
                        
                           061
                           MARITIME INTEGRATED BROADCAST SYSTEM
                           7,809
                           7,809
                        
                        
                           062
                           TACTICAL/MOBILE C4I SYSTEMS
                           65,113
                           65,113
                        
                        
                           063
                           DCGS-N
                           16,946
                           16,946
                        
                        
                           064
                           CANES
                           440,207
                           440,207
                        
                        
                           065
                           RADIAC
                           38,688
                           38,688
                        
                        
                           066
                           CANES-INTELL
                           50,654
                           50,654
                        
                        
                           067
                           GPETE
                           32,005
                           32,005
                        
                        
                           068
                           MASF
                           24,361
                           24,361
                        
                        
                           069
                           INTEG COMBAT SYSTEM TEST FACILITY
                           6,709
                           6,709
                        
                        
                           070
                           EMI CONTROL INSTRUMENTATION
                           4,081
                           4,081
                        
                        
                           072
                           IN-SERVICE RADARS AND SENSORS
                           228,910
                           228,910
                        
                        
                           
                           
                              SHIPBOARD COMMUNICATIONS
                           
                           
                           
                        
                        
                           073
                           BATTLE FORCE TACTICAL NETWORK
                           104,119
                           79,119
                        
                        
                           
                            Excessive cost growth
                           
                           [–25,000]
                        
                        
                           074
                           SHIPBOARD TACTICAL COMMUNICATIONS
                           24,602
                           24,602
                        
                        
                           075
                           SHIP COMMUNICATIONS AUTOMATION
                           103,546
                           103,546
                        
                        
                           076
                           COMMUNICATIONS ITEMS UNDER $5M
                           9,209
                           9,209
                        
                        
                           
                           
                              SUBMARINE COMMUNICATIONS
                           
                           
                           
                        
                        
                           077
                           SUBMARINE BROADCAST SUPPORT
                           136,846
                           111,846
                        
                        
                           
                            Excessive cost growth
                           
                           [–25,000]
                        
                        
                           078
                           SUBMARINE COMMUNICATION EQUIPMENT
                           68,334
                           68,334
                        
                        
                           
                           
                              SATELLITE COMMUNICATIONS
                           
                           
                           
                        
                        
                           079
                           SATELLITE COMMUNICATIONS SYSTEMS
                           59,745
                           59,745
                        
                        
                           080
                           NAVY MULTIBAND TERMINAL (NMT)
                           163,071
                           100,071
                        
                        
                           
                            Excessive cost growth
                           
                           [–63,000]
                        
                        
                           
                           
                              SHORE COMMUNICATIONS
                           
                           
                           
                        
                        
                           081
                           JOINT COMMUNICATIONS SUPPORT ELEMENT (JCSE)
                           4,551
                           4,551
                        
                        
                           
                           
                              CRYPTOGRAPHIC EQUIPMENT
                           
                           
                           
                        
                        
                           082
                           INFO SYSTEMS SECURITY PROGRAM (ISSP)
                           162,008
                           162,008
                        
                        
                           083
                           MIO INTEL EXPLOITATION TEAM
                           1,100
                           1,100
                        
                        
                           
                           
                              CRYPTOLOGIC EQUIPMENT
                           
                           
                           
                        
                        
                           084
                           CRYPTOLOGIC COMMUNICATIONS EQUIP
                           15,506
                           15,506
                        
                        
                           
                           
                              OTHER ELECTRONIC SUPPORT
                           
                           
                           
                        
                        
                           095
                           COAST GUARD EQUIPMENT
                           58,213
                           58,213
                        
                        
                           
                           
                              SONOBUOYS
                           
                           
                           
                        
                        
                           097
                           SONOBUOYS—ALL TYPES
                           323,441
                           348,441
                        
                        
                           
                            Additional Sonobouys
                           
                           [25,000]
                        
                        
                           
                           
                              AIRCRAFT SUPPORT EQUIPMENT
                           
                           
                           
                        
                        
                           098
                           MINOTAUR
                           5,431
                           5,431
                        
                        
                           099
                           WEAPONS RANGE SUPPORT EQUIPMENT
                           138,062
                           138,062
                        
                        
                           100
                           AIRCRAFT SUPPORT EQUIPMENT
                           121,108
                           121,108
                        
                        
                           101
                           ADVANCED ARRESTING GEAR (AAG)
                           2,244
                           2,244
                        
                        
                           102
                           ELECTROMAGNETIC AIRCRAFT LAUNCH SYSTEM (EMALS
                           14,702
                           14,702
                        
                        
                           103
                           METEOROLOGICAL EQUIPMENT
                           17,982
                           17,982
                        
                        
                           104
                           AIRBORNE MCM
                           10,643
                           10,643
                        
                        
                           106
                           AVIATION SUPPORT EQUIPMENT
                           110,993
                           110,993
                        
                        
                           107
                           UMCS-UNMAN CARRIER AVIATION(UCA)MISSION CNTRL
                           130,050
                           130,050
                        
                        
                           
                           
                              SHIP GUN SYSTEM EQUIPMENT
                           
                           
                           
                        
                        
                           109
                           SHIP GUN SYSTEMS EQUIPMENT
                           6,416
                           6,416
                        
                        
                           
                           
                              SHIP MISSILE SYSTEMS EQUIPMENT
                           
                           
                           
                        
                        
                           110
                           HARPOON SUPPORT EQUIPMENT
                           226
                           226
                        
                        
                           111
                           SHIP MISSILE SUPPORT EQUIPMENT
                           381,473
                           331,473
                        
                        
                           
                            Excessive cost growth
                           
                           [–50,000]
                        
                        
                           112
                           TOMAHAWK SUPPORT EQUIPMENT
                           98,921
                           98,921
                        
                        
                           
                           
                              FBM SUPPORT EQUIPMENT
                           
                           
                           
                        
                        
                           113
                           STRATEGIC MISSILE SYSTEMS EQUIP
                           325,236
                           325,236
                        
                        
                           
                           
                              ASW SUPPORT EQUIPMENT
                           
                           
                           
                        
                        
                           114
                           SSN COMBAT CONTROL SYSTEMS
                           157,609
                           157,609
                        
                        
                           115
                           ASW SUPPORT EQUIPMENT
                           25,362
                           25,362
                        
                        
                           
                           
                              OTHER ORDNANCE SUPPORT EQUIPMENT
                           
                           
                           
                        
                        
                           116
                           EXPLOSIVE ORDNANCE DISPOSAL EQUIP
                           26,725
                           26,725
                        
                        
                           117
                           DIRECTED ENERGY SYSTEMS
                           3,817
                           3,817
                        
                        
                           118
                           ITEMS LESS THAN $5 MILLION
                           3,193
                           3,193
                        
                        
                           
                           
                              OTHER EXPENDABLE ORDNANCE
                           
                           
                           
                        
                        
                           119
                           ANTI-SHIP MISSILE DECOY SYSTEM
                           95,557
                           45,557
                        
                        
                           
                            Excessive cost growth
                           
                           [–50,000]
                        
                        
                           120
                           SUBMARINE TRAINING DEVICE MODS
                           80,248
                           80,248
                        
                        
                           121
                           SURFACE TRAINING EQUIPMENT
                           179,974
                           179,974
                        
                        
                           
                           
                              CIVIL ENGINEERING SUPPORT EQUIPMENT
                           
                           
                           
                        
                        
                           122
                           PASSENGER CARRYING VEHICLES
                           3,751
                           3,751
                        
                        
                           123
                           GENERAL PURPOSE TRUCKS
                           5,795
                           5,795
                        
                        
                           124
                           CONSTRUCTION &amp;amp; MAINTENANCE EQUIP
                           80,260
                           80,260
                        
                        
                           125
                           FIRE FIGHTING EQUIPMENT
                           26,199
                           26,199
                        
                        
                           126
                           TACTICAL VEHICLES
                           50,878
                           50,878
                        
                        
                           127
                           AMPHIBIOUS EQUIPMENT
                           6,454
                           6,454
                        
                        
                           128
                           POLLUTION CONTROL EQUIPMENT
                           3,924
                           3,924
                        
                        
                           129
                           ITEMS LESS THAN $5 MILLION
                           103,014
                           78,014
                        
                        
                           
                            Excessive cost growth
                           
                           [–25,000]
                        
                        
                           130
                           PHYSICAL SECURITY VEHICLES
                           1,301
                           1,301
                        
                        
                           
                           
                              SUPPLY SUPPORT EQUIPMENT
                           
                           
                           
                        
                        
                           131
                           SUPPLY EQUIPMENT
                           56,585
                           46,585
                        
                        
                           
                            Excessive cost growth
                           
                           [–10,000]
                        
                        
                           132
                           FIRST DESTINATION TRANSPORTATION
                           5,863
                           5,863
                        
                        
                           133
                           SPECIAL PURPOSE SUPPLY SYSTEMS
                           954,467
                           954,467
                        
                        
                           
                           
                              TRAINING DEVICES
                           
                           
                           
                        
                        
                           134
                           TRAINING SUPPORT EQUIPMENT
                           5,341
                           5,341
                        
                        
                           135
                           TRAINING AND EDUCATION EQUIPMENT
                           75,626
                           75,626
                        
                        
                           
                           
                              COMMAND SUPPORT EQUIPMENT
                           
                           
                           
                        
                        
                           136
                           COMMAND SUPPORT EQUIPMENT
                           29,698
                           29,698
                        
                        
                           137
                           MEDICAL SUPPORT EQUIPMENT
                           10,122
                           10,122
                        
                        
                           139
                           NAVAL MIP SUPPORT EQUIPMENT
                           6,590
                           6,590
                        
                        
                           140
                           OPERATING FORCES SUPPORT EQUIPMENT
                           17,056
                           17,056
                        
                        
                           141
                           C4ISR EQUIPMENT
                           33,606
                           18,606
                        
                        
                           
                            Excessive cost growth
                           
                           [–15,000]
                        
                        
                           142
                           ENVIRONMENTAL SUPPORT EQUIPMENT
                           47,499
                           47,499
                        
                        
                           143
                           PHYSICAL SECURITY EQUIPMENT
                           129,484
                           119,484
                        
                        
                           
                            Excessive cost growth
                           
                           [–10,000]
                        
                        
                           144
                           ENTERPRISE INFORMATION TECHNOLOGY
                           42,026
                           42,026
                        
                        
                           
                           
                              OTHER
                           
                           
                           
                        
                        
                           149
                           NEXT GENERATION ENTERPRISE SERVICE
                           130,100
                           130,100
                        
                        
                           150
                           CYBERSPACE ACTIVITIES
                           2,195
                           2,195
                        
                        
                           
                           
                              CLASSIFIED PROGRAMS
                           
                           
                           
                        
                        
                           151A
                           CLASSIFIED PROGRAMS
                           16,134
                           16,134
                        
                        
                           
                           
                              SPARES AND REPAIR PARTS
                           
                           
                           
                        
                        
                           152
                           SPARES AND REPAIR PARTS
                           705,144
                           705,144
                        
                        
                           153
                           VIRGINIA CLASS (VACL) SPARES AND REPAIR PARTS
                           578,277
                           578,277
                        
                        
                           
                           
                               TOTAL OTHER PROCUREMENT, NAVY
                           
                           
                              15,877,253
                           
                           
                              15,283,353
                           
                        
                        
                           
                           
                           
                           
                        
                        
                           
                           
                              PROCUREMENT, MARINE CORPS
                           
                           
                           
                        
                        
                           
                           
                              TRACKED COMBAT VEHICLES
                           
                           
                           
                        
                        
                           001
                           AAV7A1 PIP
                           2,773
                           2,773
                        
                        
                           002
                           AMPHIBIOUS COMBAT VEHICLE FAMILY OF VEHICLES
                           810,276
                           526,276
                        
                        
                           
                            Red Stripe limitation/cost growth
                           
                           [–284,000]
                        
                        
                           003
                           LAV PIP
                           761
                           761
                        
                        
                           
                           
                              ARTILLERY AND OTHER WEAPONS
                           
                           
                           
                        
                        
                           004
                           155MM LIGHTWEIGHT TOWED HOWITZER
                           1,823
                           1,823
                        
                        
                           005
                           ARTILLERY WEAPONS SYSTEM
                           139,477
                           139,477
                        
                        
                           006
                           WEAPONS AND COMBAT VEHICLES UNDER $5 MILLION
                           18,481
                           18,481
                        
                        
                           
                           
                              GUIDED MISSILES
                           
                           
                           
                        
                        
                           007
                           TOMAHAWK
                           115,232
                           115,232
                        
                        
                           008
                           NAVAL STRIKE MISSILE (NSM)
                           144,682
                           144,682
                        
                        
                           009
                           NAVAL STRIKE MISSILE (NSM) AP
                           30,087
                           30,087
                        
                        
                           010
                           GROUND BASED AIR DEFENSE
                           369,296
                           333,296
                        
                        
                           
                            Excessive missile costs
                           
                           [–5,000]
                        
                        
                           
                            Forward financed in FY24
                           
                           [–31,000]
                        
                        
                           011
                           ANTI-ARMOR MISSILE-JAVELIN
                           61,563
                           61,563
                        
                        
                           012
                           FAMILY ANTI-ARMOR WEAPON SYSTEMS (FOAAWS)
                           9,521
                           9,521
                        
                        
                           013
                           ANTI-ARMOR MISSILE-TOW
                           1,868
                           1,868
                        
                        
                           014
                           GUIDED MLRS ROCKET (GMLRS)
                           1,584
                           1,584
                        
                        
                           
                           
                              COMMAND AND CONTROL SYSTEMS
                           
                           
                           
                        
                        
                           015
                           COMMON AVIATION COMMAND AND CONTROL SYSTEM (C
                           84,764
                           84,764
                        
                        
                           
                           
                              REPAIR AND TEST EQUIPMENT
                           
                           
                           
                        
                        
                           016
                           REPAIR AND TEST EQUIPMENT
                           71,023
                           71,023
                        
                        
                           
                           
                              OTHER SUPPORT (TEL)
                           
                           
                           
                        
                        
                           017
                           MODIFICATION KITS
                           1,559
                           1,559
                        
                        
                           
                           
                              COMMAND AND CONTROL SYSTEM (NON-TEL)
                           
                           
                           
                        
                        
                           018
                           ITEMS UNDER $5 MILLION (COMM &amp;amp; ELEC)
                           221,212
                           172,112
                        
                        
                           
                            Lack of testing program with Squad Aiming Laser
                           
                           [–49,100]
                        
                        
                           019
                           AIR OPERATIONS C2 SYSTEMS
                           20,385
                           20,385
                        
                        
                           
                           
                              RADAR + EQUIPMENT (NON-TEL)
                           
                           
                           
                        
                        
                           020
                           GROUND/AIR TASK ORIENTED RADAR (G/ATOR)
                           71,941
                           71,941
                        
                        
                           
                           
                              INTELL/COMM EQUIPMENT (NON-TEL)
                           
                           
                           
                        
                        
                           021
                           ELECTRO MAGNETIC SPECTRUM OPERATIONS (EMSO)
                           182,465
                           53,465
                        
                        
                           
                            Program decrease
                           
                           [–129,000]
                        
                        
                           022
                           GCSS-MC
                           3,282
                           3,282
                        
                        
                           023
                           FIRE SUPPORT SYSTEM
                           56,710
                           56,710
                        
                        
                           024
                           INTELLIGENCE SUPPORT EQUIPMENT
                           128,804
                           106,304
                        
                        
                           
                            Excess Advanced Signals Processor
                           
                           [–22,500]
                        
                        
                           026
                           UNMANNED AIR SYSTEMS (INTEL)
                           59,077
                           59,077
                        
                        
                           027
                           DCGS-MC
                           81,507
                           81,507
                        
                        
                           028
                           UAS PAYLOADS
                           17,232
                           17,232
                        
                        
                           
                           
                              OTHER SUPPORT (NON-TEL)
                           
                           
                           
                        
                        
                           031
                           EXPEDITIONARY SUPPORT EQUIPMENT
                           15,042
                           15,042
                        
                        
                           032
                           MARINE CORPS ENTERPRISE NETWORK (MCEN)
                           283,983
                           263,583
                        
                        
                           
                            Network Transport Excess Growth
                           
                           [–20,400]
                        
                        
                           033
                           COMMON COMPUTER RESOURCES
                           25,793
                           25,793
                        
                        
                           034
                           COMMAND POST SYSTEMS
                           59,113
                           59,113
                        
                        
                           035
                           RADIO SYSTEMS
                           258,818
                           258,818
                        
                        
                           036
                           COMM SWITCHING &amp;amp; CONTROL SYSTEMS
                           39,390
                           39,390
                        
                        
                           037
                           COMM &amp;amp; ELEC INFRASTRUCTURE SUPPORT
                           21,015
                           21,015
                        
                        
                           038
                           CYBERSPACE ACTIVITIES
                           19,245
                           19,245
                        
                        
                           040
                           UNMANNED EXPEDITIONARY SYSTEMS
                           16,305
                           16,305
                        
                        
                           
                           
                              CLASSIFIED PROGRAMS
                           
                           
                           
                        
                        
                           041A
                           CLASSIFIED PROGRAMS
                           3,266
                           3,266
                        
                        
                           
                           
                              ADMINISTRATIVE VEHICLES
                           
                           
                           
                        
                        
                           042
                           COMMERCIAL CARGO VEHICLES
                           26,800
                           26,800
                        
                        
                           
                           
                              TACTICAL VEHICLES
                           
                           
                           
                        
                        
                           043
                           MOTOR TRANSPORT MODIFICATIONS
                           17,304
                           17,304
                        
                        
                           044
                           JOINT LIGHT TACTICAL VEHICLE
                           340,542
                           223,142
                        
                        
                           
                            Fielding delay schedule impact
                           
                           [–7,400]
                        
                        
                           
                            Material schedule impact to M2/Ukraine forward funded
                           
                           [–101,700]
                        
                        
                           
                            Schedule delay trailer impact
                           
                           [–8,300]
                        
                        
                           045
                           TRAILERS
                           27,440
                           27,440
                        
                        
                           
                           
                              ENGINEER AND OTHER EQUIPMENT
                           
                           
                           
                        
                        
                           046
                           TACTICAL FUEL SYSTEMS
                           29,252
                           29,252
                        
                        
                           047
                           POWER EQUIPMENT ASSORTED
                           23,411
                           23,411
                        
                        
                           048
                           AMPHIBIOUS SUPPORT EQUIPMENT
                           11,366
                           11,366
                        
                        
                           049
                           EOD SYSTEMS
                           30,166
                           30,166
                        
                        
                           
                           
                              MATERIALS HANDLING EQUIPMENT
                           
                           
                           
                        
                        
                           050
                           PHYSICAL SECURITY EQUIPMENT
                           56,749
                           56,749
                        
                        
                           
                           
                              GENERAL PROPERTY
                           
                           
                           
                        
                        
                           051
                           FIELD MEDICAL EQUIPMENT
                           23,651
                           23,651
                        
                        
                           052
                           TRAINING DEVICES
                           105,448
                           105,448
                        
                        
                           053
                           FAMILY OF CONSTRUCTION EQUIPMENT
                           29,168
                           29,168
                        
                        
                           054
                           ULTRA-LIGHT TACTICAL VEHICLE (ULTV)
                           17,954
                           17,954
                        
                        
                           
                           
                              OTHER SUPPORT
                           
                           
                           
                        
                        
                           055
                           ITEMS LESS THAN $5 MILLION
                           26,508
                           26,508
                        
                        
                           
                           
                              SPARES AND REPAIR PARTS
                           
                           
                           
                        
                        
                           056
                           SPARES AND REPAIR PARTS
                           28,749
                           28,749
                        
                        
                           
                           
                               TOTAL PROCUREMENT, MARINE CORPS
                           
                           
                              4,243,863
                           
                           
                              3,585,463
                           
                        
                        
                           
                           
                           
                           
                        
                        
                           
                           
                              AIRCRAFT PROCUREMENT, AIR FORCE
                           
                           
                           
                        
                        
                           
                           
                              STRATEGIC OFFENSIVE
                           
                           
                           
                        
                        
                           001
                           B–21 RAIDER
                           1,956,668
                           1,956,668
                        
                        
                           002
                           B–21 RAIDER AP
                           721,600
                           721,600
                        
                        
                           
                           
                              TACTICAL FORCES
                           
                           
                           
                        
                        
                           003
                           F–35
                           4,474,156
                           4,012,456
                        
                        
                           
                            APG–81 Radars (Qty 34)
                           
                           [138,300]
                        
                        
                           
                            Correction of F–35 program deficiencies
                           
                           [–600,000]
                        
                        
                           004
                           F–35 AP
                           482,584
                           482,584
                        
                        
                           005
                           F–15EX
                           1,808,472
                           1,808,472
                        
                        
                           006
                           F–15EX AP
                           
                           271,000
                        
                        
                           
                            FY26 Aircraft (+24)
                           
                           [271,000]
                        
                        
                           
                           
                              TACTICAL AIRLIFT
                           
                           
                           
                        
                        
                           007
                           KC–46A MDAP
                           2,854,748
                           2,604,748
                        
                        
                           
                            Excessive cost growth
                           
                           [–140,000]
                        
                        
                           
                            Program decrease
                           
                           [–110,000]
                        
                        
                           
                           
                              OTHER AIRLIFT
                           
                           
                           
                        
                        
                           008
                           C–130J
                           2,405
                           285,405
                        
                        
                           
                            2 additional aircraft
                           
                           [220,000]
                        
                        
                           
                            NRE Polar Airlift
                           
                           [63,000]
                        
                        
                           
                           
                              UPT TRAINERS
                           
                           
                           
                        
                        
                           010
                           ADVANCED PILOT TRAINING T–7A
                           235,207
                           235,207
                        
                        
                           
                           
                              HELICOPTERS
                           
                           
                           
                        
                        
                           011
                           MH–139A
                           294,095
                           294,095
                        
                        
                           012
                           COMBAT RESCUE HELICOPTER
                           162,685
                           137,685
                        
                        
                           
                            Excess to need
                           
                           [–5,000]
                        
                        
                           
                            Program decrease
                           
                           [–20,000]
                        
                        
                           
                           
                              MISSION SUPPORT AIRCRAFT
                           
                           
                           
                        
                        
                           013
                           C–40 FLEET EXPANSION
                           328,689
                           200,000
                        
                        
                           
                            Two additional C–40B aircraft for the Air National Guard
                           
                           [200,000]
                        
                        
                           
                            Unjustified request
                           
                           [–328,689]
                        
                        
                           014
                           CIVIL AIR PATROL A/C
                           3,086
                           3,086
                        
                        
                           
                           
                              OTHER AIRCRAFT
                           
                           
                           
                        
                        
                           016
                           TARGET DRONES
                           37,581
                           37,581
                        
                        
                           017
                           ULTRA
                           35,274
                           35,274
                        
                        
                           021
                           RQ–20B PUMA
                           11,283
                           11,283
                        
                        
                           
                           
                              STRATEGIC AIRCRAFT
                           
                           
                           
                        
                        
                           022
                           B–2A
                           63,932
                           63,932
                        
                        
                           023
                           B–1B
                           13,406
                           13,406
                        
                        
                           024
                           B–52
                           194,832
                           194,832
                        
                        
                           025
                           LARGE AIRCRAFT INFRARED COUNTERMEASURES
                           52,117
                           52,117
                        
                        
                           
                           
                              TACTICAL AIRCRAFT
                           
                           
                           
                        
                        
                           027
                           E–11 BACN/HAG
                           82,939
                           82,939
                        
                        
                           028
                           F–15
                           45,829
                           45,829
                        
                        
                           029
                           F–16
                           217,235
                           217,235
                        
                        
                           030
                           F–22A
                           861,125
                           861,125
                        
                        
                           031
                           F–35 MODIFICATIONS
                           549,657
                           549,657
                        
                        
                           032
                           F–15 EPAW
                           271,970
                           271,970
                        
                        
                           033
                           KC–46A MDAP
                           24,954
                           24,954
                        
                        
                           
                           
                              AIRLIFT AIRCRAFT
                           
                           
                           
                        
                        
                           034
                           C–5
                           45,445
                           45,445
                        
                        
                           035
                           C–17A
                           103,306
                           136,206
                        
                        
                           
                            Mobility connectivity
                           
                           [32,900]
                        
                        
                           036
                           C–32A
                           6,422
                           6,422
                        
                        
                           037
                           C–37A
                           9,146
                           9,146
                        
                        
                           
                           
                              TRAINER AIRCRAFT
                           
                           
                           
                        
                        
                           038
                           GLIDER MODS
                           2,679
                           2,679
                        
                        
                           039
                           T–6
                           130,281
                           130,281
                        
                        
                           040
                           T–1
                           2,205
                           2,205
                        
                        
                           041
                           T–38
                           115,486
                           115,486
                        
                        
                           
                           
                              OTHER AIRCRAFT
                           
                           
                           
                        
                        
                           043
                           U–2 MODS
                           69,806
                           69,806
                        
                        
                           047
                           VC–25A MOD
                           11,388
                           11,388
                        
                        
                           048
                           C–40
                           7,114
                           7,114
                        
                        
                           049
                           C–130
                           102,519
                           102,519
                        
                        
                           050
                           C–130J MODS
                           206,904
                           206,904
                        
                        
                           051
                           C–135
                           146,564
                           146,564
                        
                        
                           052
                           COMPASS CALL
                           94,654
                           94,654
                        
                        
                           054
                           RC–135
                           222,966
                           222,966
                        
                        
                           055
                           E–3
                           68,192
                           68,192
                        
                        
                           056
                           E–4
                           28,728
                           28,728
                        
                        
                           057
                           H–1
                           2,097
                           2,097
                        
                        
                           058
                           MH–139A MOD
                           5,010
                           5,010
                        
                        
                           059
                           H–60
                           2,035
                           2,035
                        
                        
                           060
                           HH60W MODIFICATIONS
                           28,911
                           28,911
                        
                        
                           062
                           HC/MC–130 MODIFICATIONS
                           213,284
                           213,284
                        
                        
                           063
                           OTHER AIRCRAFT
                           55,122
                           55,122
                        
                        
                           064
                           OTHER AIRCRAFT AP
                           5,216
                           5,216
                        
                        
                           065
                           MQ–9 MODS
                           12,351
                           40,351
                        
                        
                           
                            MQ–9 Multi-Domain Operations (M2DO) Kits
                           
                           [28,000]
                        
                        
                           066
                           SENIOR LEADER C3 SYSTEM—AIRCRAFT
                           25,001
                           25,001
                        
                        
                           067
                           CV–22 MODS
                           42,795
                           42,795
                        
                        
                           
                           
                              AIRCRAFT SPARES AND REPAIR PARTS
                           
                           
                           
                        
                        
                           068
                           INITIAL SPARES/REPAIR PARTS
                           936,212
                           936,212
                        
                        
                           
                           
                              COMMON SUPPORT EQUIPMENT
                           
                           
                           
                        
                        
                           069
                           AIRCRAFT REPLACEMENT SUPPORT EQUIP
                           162,813
                           162,813
                        
                        
                           
                           
                              POST PRODUCTION SUPPORT
                           
                           
                           
                        
                        
                           070
                           OTHER PRODUCTION CHARGES
                           15,031
                           15,031
                        
                        
                           072
                           B–2A
                           1,885
                           1,885
                        
                        
                           073
                           B–2B
                           15,709
                           15,709
                        
                        
                           076
                           CV–22 POST PRODUCTION SUPPORT
                           12,025
                           12,025
                        
                        
                           079
                           F–16
                           11,501
                           11,501
                        
                        
                           080
                           F–16
                           867
                           867
                        
                        
                           082
                           HC/MC–130 MODIFICATIONS
                           18,604
                           18,604
                        
                        
                           
                           
                              INDUSTRIAL PREPAREDNESS
                           
                           
                           
                        
                        
                           085
                           INDUSTRIAL RESPONSIVENESS
                           20,004
                           20,004
                        
                        
                           
                           
                              WAR CONSUMABLES
                           
                           
                           
                        
                        
                           086
                           WAR CONSUMABLES
                           25,908
                           25,908
                        
                        
                           
                           
                              OTHER PRODUCTION CHARGES
                           
                           
                           
                        
                        
                           087
                           OTHER PRODUCTION CHARGES
                           1,006,272
                           1,006,272
                        
                        
                           092
                           F–15EX
                           40,084
                           40,084
                        
                        
                           
                           
                              CLASSIFIED PROGRAMS
                           
                           
                           
                        
                        
                           092A
                           CLASSIFIED PROGRAMS
                           16,359
                           16,359
                        
                        
                           
                           
                               TOTAL AIRCRAFT PROCUREMENT, AIR FORCE
                           
                           
                              19,835,430
                           
                           
                              19,584,941
                           
                        
                        
                           
                           
                           
                           
                        
                        
                           
                           
                              MISSILE PROCUREMENT, AIR FORCE
                           
                           
                           
                        
                        
                           
                           
                              MISSILE REPLACEMENT EQUIPMENT—BALLISTIC
                           
                           
                           
                        
                        
                           001
                           MISSILE REPLACEMENT EQ-BALLISTIC
                           37,333
                           37,333
                        
                        
                           
                           
                              BALLISTIC MISSILES
                           
                           
                           
                        
                        
                           003
                           MK21A REENTRY VEHICLE
                           26,156
                           26,156
                        
                        
                           
                           
                              STRATEGIC
                           
                           
                           
                        
                        
                           004
                           LONG RANGE STAND-OFF WEAPON
                           70,335
                           70,335
                        
                        
                           005
                           LONG RANGE STAND-OFF WEAPON AP
                           140,000
                           140,000
                        
                        
                           
                           
                              TACTICAL
                           
                           
                           
                        
                        
                           006
                           REPLAC EQUIP &amp;amp; WAR CONSUMABLES
                           6,533
                           6,533
                        
                        
                           007
                           JOINT AIR-SURFACE STANDOFF MISSILE
                           825,051
                           825,051
                        
                        
                           009
                           JOINT STRIKE MISSILE
                           165,909
                           165,909
                        
                        
                           010
                           LRASM0
                           354,100
                           354,100
                        
                        
                           012
                           SIDEWINDER (AIM–9X)
                           107,101
                           107,101
                        
                        
                           013
                           AMRAAM
                           447,373
                           447,373
                        
                        
                           016
                           SMALL DIAMETER BOMB
                           42,257
                           42,257
                        
                        
                           017
                           SMALL DIAMETER BOMB II
                           328,382
                           328,382
                        
                        
                           018
                           STAND-IN ATTACK WEAPON (SIAW)
                           173,421
                           173,421
                        
                        
                           
                           
                              INDUSTRIAL FACILITIES
                           
                           
                           
                        
                        
                           019
                           INDUSTRIAL PREPAREDNESS/POL PREVENTION
                           913
                           913
                        
                        
                           
                           
                              CLASS IV
                           
                           
                           
                        
                        
                           020
                           ICBM FUZE MOD
                           104,039
                           104,039
                        
                        
                           021
                           ICBM FUZE MOD AP
                           40,336
                           40,336
                        
                        
                           022
                           MM III MODIFICATIONS
                           24,212
                           24,212
                        
                        
                           023
                           AIR LAUNCH CRUISE MISSILE (ALCM)
                           34,019
                           34,019
                        
                        
                           
                           
                              MISSILE SPARES AND REPAIR PARTS
                           
                           
                           
                        
                        
                           024
                           MSL SPRS/REPAIR PARTS (INITIAL)
                           6,956
                           6,956
                        
                        
                           025
                           MSL SPRS/REPAIR PARTS (REPLEN)
                           103,543
                           103,543
                        
                        
                           
                           
                              SPECIAL PROGRAMS
                           
                           
                           
                        
                        
                           028
                           SPECIAL UPDATE PROGRAMS
                           628,436
                           628,436
                        
                        
                           
                           
                              CLASSIFIED PROGRAMS
                           
                           
                           
                        
                        
                           028A
                           CLASSIFIED PROGRAMS
                           707,204
                           707,204
                        
                        
                           
                           
                               TOTAL MISSILE PROCUREMENT, AIR FORCE
                           
                           
                              4,373,609
                           
                           
                              4,373,609
                           
                        
                        
                           
                           
                           
                           
                        
                        
                           
                           
                              PROCUREMENT OF AMMUNITION, AIR FORCE
                           
                           
                           
                        
                        
                           
                           
                              CARTRIDGES
                           
                           
                           
                        
                        
                           002
                           CARTRIDGES
                           123,034
                           123,034
                        
                        
                           
                           
                              BOMBS
                           
                           
                           
                        
                        
                           003
                           GENERAL PURPOSE BOMBS
                           144,725
                           144,725
                        
                        
                           004
                           MASSIVE ORDNANCE PENETRATOR (MOP)
                           8,566
                           8,566
                        
                        
                           005
                           JOINT DIRECT ATTACK MUNITION
                           125,268
                           125,268
                        
                        
                           007
                           B61–12 TRAINER
                           11,665
                           11,665
                        
                        
                           
                           
                              OTHER ITEMS
                           
                           
                           
                        
                        
                           008
                           CAD/PAD
                           40,487
                           40,487
                        
                        
                           009
                           EXPLOSIVE ORDNANCE DISPOSAL (EOD)
                           7,076
                           7,076
                        
                        
                           010
                           SPARES AND REPAIR PARTS
                           617
                           617
                        
                        
                           011
                           FIRST DESTINATION TRANSPORTATION
                           2,894
                           2,894
                        
                        
                           012
                           ITEMS LESS THAN $5,000,000
                           5,399
                           5,399
                        
                        
                           
                           
                              FLARES
                           
                           
                           
                        
                        
                           013
                           EXPENDABLE COUNTERMEASURES
                           99,769
                           99,769
                        
                        
                           
                           
                              FUZES
                           
                           
                           
                        
                        
                           014
                           FUZES
                           114,664
                           114,664
                        
                        
                           
                           
                              SMALL ARMS
                           
                           
                           
                        
                        
                           015
                           SMALL ARMS
                           25,311
                           25,311
                        
                        
                           
                           
                               TOTAL PROCUREMENT OF AMMUNITION, AIR FORCE
                           
                           
                              709,475
                           
                           
                              709,475
                           
                        
                        
                           
                           
                           
                           
                        
                        
                           
                           
                              PROCUREMENT, SPACE FORCE
                           
                           
                           
                        
                        
                           
                           
                              SPACE PROCUREMENT, SF
                           
                           
                           
                        
                        
                           001
                           AF SATELLITE COMM SYSTEM
                           65,656
                           65,656
                        
                        
                           003
                           COUNTERSPACE SYSTEMS
                           4,277
                           4,277
                        
                        
                           004
                           FAMILY OF BEYOND LINE-OF-SIGHT TERMINALS
                           17,264
                           17,264
                        
                        
                           005
                           FABT FORCE ELEMENT TERMINAL
                           234,655
                           234,655
                        
                        
                           006
                           WIDEBAND GAPFILLER SATELLITES(SPACE)
                           10,020
                           10,020
                        
                        
                           007
                           GENERAL INFORMATION TECH—SPACE
                           2,189
                           2,189
                        
                        
                           008
                           GPSIII FOLLOW ON
                           647,165
                           323,565
                        
                        
                           
                            Early to need
                           
                           [–323,600]
                        
                        
                           009
                           GPS III SPACE SEGMENT
                           68,205
                           68,205
                        
                        
                           010
                           GLOBAL POSTIONING (SPACE)
                           835
                           835
                        
                        
                           014
                           SPACEBORNE EQUIP (COMSEC)
                           83,829
                           83,829
                        
                        
                           015
                           MILSATCOM
                           37,684
                           37,684
                        
                        
                           017
                           SPECIAL SPACE ACTIVITIES
                           658,007
                           658,007
                        
                        
                           018
                           MOBILE USER OBJECTIVE SYSTEM
                           51,601
                           51,601
                        
                        
                           019
                           NATIONAL SECURITY SPACE LAUNCH
                           1,847,486
                           1,847,486
                        
                        
                           021
                           PTES HUB
                           56,148
                           56,148
                        
                        
                           023
                           SPACE DEVELOPMENT AGENCY LAUNCH
                           357,178
                           357,178
                        
                        
                           024
                           SPACE MODS
                           48,152
                           48,152
                        
                        
                           025
                           SPACELIFT RANGE SYSTEM SPACE
                           63,798
                           63,798
                        
                        
                           
                           
                              SPARES
                           
                           
                           
                        
                        
                           026
                           SPARES AND REPAIR PARTS
                           722
                           722
                        
                        
                           
                           
                              PASSENGER CARRYING VEHICLES
                           
                           
                           
                        
                        
                           027
                           USSF REPLACEMENT VEHICLES
                           4,919
                           4,919
                        
                        
                           
                           
                              SUPPORT EQUIPMENT
                           
                           
                           
                        
                        
                           028
                           POWER CONDITIONING EQUIPMENT
                           3,189
                           3,189
                        
                        
                           
                           
                               TOTAL PROCUREMENT, SPACE FORCE
                           
                           
                              4,262,979
                           
                           
                              3,939,379
                           
                        
                        
                           
                           
                           
                           
                        
                        
                           
                           
                              OTHER PROCUREMENT, AIR FORCE
                           
                           
                           
                        
                        
                           
                           
                              PASSENGER CARRYING VEHICLES
                           
                           
                           
                        
                        
                           001
                           PASSENGER CARRYING VEHICLES
                           6,802
                           6,802
                        
                        
                           
                           
                              CARGO AND UTILITY VEHICLES
                           
                           
                           
                        
                        
                           002
                           MEDIUM TACTICAL VEHICLE
                           4,526
                           4,526
                        
                        
                           003
                           CAP VEHICLES
                           1,151
                           1,151
                        
                        
                           004
                           CARGO AND UTILITY VEHICLES
                           41,605
                           41,605
                        
                        
                           
                           
                              SPECIAL PURPOSE VEHICLES
                           
                           
                           
                        
                        
                           005
                           JOINT LIGHT TACTICAL VEHICLE
                           69,546
                           69,546
                        
                        
                           006
                           SECURITY AND TACTICAL VEHICLES
                           438
                           438
                        
                        
                           007
                           SPECIAL PURPOSE VEHICLES
                           99,057
                           99,057
                        
                        
                           
                           
                              FIRE FIGHTING EQUIPMENT
                           
                           
                           
                        
                        
                           008
                           FIRE FIGHTING/CRASH RESCUE VEHICLES
                           57,234
                           57,234
                        
                        
                           
                           
                              MATERIALS HANDLING EQUIPMENT
                           
                           
                           
                        
                        
                           009
                           MATERIALS HANDLING VEHICLES
                           22,949
                           22,949
                        
                        
                           
                           
                              BASE MAINTENANCE SUPPORT
                           
                           
                           
                        
                        
                           010
                           RUNWAY SNOW REMOV AND CLEANING EQU
                           7,476
                           7,476
                        
                        
                           011
                           BASE MAINTENANCE SUPPORT VEHICLES
                           91,001
                           91,001
                        
                        
                           
                           
                              COMM SECURITY EQUIPMENT(COMSEC)
                           
                           
                           
                        
                        
                           012
                           COMSEC EQUIPMENT
                           63,233
                           63,233
                        
                        
                           013
                           STRATEGIC MICROELECTRONIC SUPPLY SYSTEM
                           328,667
                           323,667
                        
                        
                           
                            Program decrease
                           
                           [–5,000]
                        
                        
                           
                           
                              INTELLIGENCE PROGRAMS
                           
                           
                           
                        
                        
                           014
                           INTERNATIONAL INTEL TECH &amp;amp; ARCHITECTURES
                           5,616
                           5,616
                        
                        
                           015
                           INTELLIGENCE TRAINING EQUIPMENT
                           5,146
                           5,146
                        
                        
                           016
                           INTELLIGENCE COMM EQUIPMENT
                           36,449
                           36,449
                        
                        
                           
                           
                              ELECTRONICS PROGRAMS
                           
                           
                           
                        
                        
                           017
                           AIR TRAFFIC CONTROL &amp;amp; LANDING SYS
                           45,820
                           45,820
                        
                        
                           018
                           NATIONAL AIRSPACE SYSTEM
                           13,443
                           13,443
                        
                        
                           019
                           BATTLE CONTROL SYSTEM—FIXED
                           22,764
                           22,764
                        
                        
                           020
                           THEATER AIR CONTROL SYS IMPROVEMEN
                           73,412
                           73,412
                        
                        
                           021
                           3D EXPEDITIONARY LONG-RANGE RADAR
                           96,022
                           96,022
                        
                        
                           022
                           WEATHER OBSERVATION FORECAST
                           31,056
                           31,056
                        
                        
                           023
                           STRATEGIC COMMAND AND CONTROL
                           49,991
                           49,991
                        
                        
                           024
                           CHEYENNE MOUNTAIN COMPLEX
                           8,897
                           8,897
                        
                        
                           025
                           MISSION PLANNING SYSTEMS
                           18,474
                           18,474
                        
                        
                           027
                           STRATEGIC MISSION PLANNING &amp;amp; EXECUTION SYSTEM
                           7,376
                           7,376
                        
                        
                           
                           
                              SPCL COMM-ELECTRONICS PROJECTS
                           
                           
                           
                        
                        
                           028
                           GENERAL INFORMATION TECHNOLOGY
                           161,928
                           161,928
                        
                        
                           029
                           AF GLOBAL COMMAND &amp;amp; CONTROL SYS
                           1,946
                           1,946
                        
                        
                           030
                           BATTLEFIELD AIRBORNE CONTROL NODE (BACN)
                           5
                           5
                        
                        
                           031
                           MOBILITY COMMAND AND CONTROL
                           11,435
                           11,435
                        
                        
                           032
                           AIR FORCE PHYSICAL SECURITY SYSTEM
                           254,106
                           254,106
                        
                        
                           033
                           COMBAT TRAINING RANGES
                           290,877
                           298,377
                        
                        
                           
                            Infrastructure and communications upgrades
                           
                           [7,500]
                        
                        
                           034
                           MINIMUM ESSENTIAL EMERGENCY COMM N
                           60,639
                           60,639
                        
                        
                           035
                           WIDE AREA SURVEILLANCE (WAS)
                           13,945
                           13,945
                        
                        
                           036
                           C3 COUNTERMEASURES
                           100,594
                           100,594
                        
                        
                           037
                           DEFENSE ENTERPRISE ACCOUNTING &amp;amp; MGT SYS
                           1,236
                           1,236
                        
                        
                           039
                           THEATER BATTLE MGT C2 SYSTEM
                           433
                           433
                        
                        
                           040
                           AIR &amp;amp; SPACE OPERATIONS CENTER (AOC)
                           21,175
                           21,175
                        
                        
                           
                           
                              AIR FORCE COMMUNICATIONS
                           
                           
                           
                        
                        
                           041
                           BASE INFORMATION TRANSPT INFRAST (BITI) WIRED
                           201,670
                           201,670
                        
                        
                           042
                           AFNET
                           69,807
                           69,807
                        
                        
                           043
                           JOINT COMMUNICATIONS SUPPORT ELEMENT (JCSE)
                           5,821
                           5,821
                        
                        
                           044
                           USCENTCOM
                           19,498
                           19,498
                        
                        
                           045
                           USSTRATCOM
                           4,797
                           4,797
                        
                        
                           046
                           USSPACECOM
                           79,783
                           79,783
                        
                        
                           
                           
                              ORGANIZATION AND BASE
                           
                           
                           
                        
                        
                           047
                           TACTICAL C-E EQUIPMENT
                           139,153
                           139,153
                        
                        
                           048
                           COMBAT SURVIVOR EVADER LOCATER
                           2,222
                           2,222
                        
                        
                           049
                           RADIO EQUIPMENT
                           53,568
                           53,568
                        
                        
                           050
                           BASE COMM INFRASTRUCTURE
                           60,744
                           60,744
                        
                        
                           
                           
                              MODIFICATIONS
                           
                           
                           
                        
                        
                           051
                           COMM ELECT MODS
                           73,147
                           73,147
                        
                        
                           
                           
                              PERSONAL SAFETY &amp;amp; RESCUE EQUIP
                           
                           
                           
                        
                        
                           052
                           PERSONAL SAFETY AND RESCUE EQUIPMENT
                           109,562
                           109,562
                        
                        
                           
                           
                              DEPOT PLANT+MTRLS HANDLING EQ
                           
                           
                           
                        
                        
                           053
                           POWER CONDITIONING EQUIPMENT
                           13,443
                           13,443
                        
                        
                           054
                           MECHANIZED MATERIAL HANDLING EQUIP
                           20,459
                           20,459
                        
                        
                           
                           
                              BASE SUPPORT EQUIPMENT
                           
                           
                           
                        
                        
                           055
                           BASE PROCURED EQUIPMENT
                           79,854
                           79,854
                        
                        
                           056
                           ENGINEERING AND EOD EQUIPMENT
                           203,531
                           203,531
                        
                        
                           057
                           MOBILITY EQUIPMENT
                           112,280
                           112,280
                        
                        
                           058
                           FUELS SUPPORT EQUIPMENT (FSE)
                           24,563
                           24,563
                        
                        
                           059
                           BASE MAINTENANCE AND SUPPORT EQUIPMENT
                           54,455
                           54,455
                        
                        
                           
                           
                              SPECIAL SUPPORT PROJECTS
                           
                           
                           
                        
                        
                           061
                           DARP RC135
                           29,524
                           29,524
                        
                        
                           062
                           DCGS-AF
                           59,504
                           59,504
                        
                        
                           064
                           SPECIAL UPDATE PROGRAM
                           1,269,904
                           1,169,904
                        
                        
                           
                            Expenditure delays
                           
                           [–100,000]
                        
                        
                           
                           
                              CLASSIFIED PROGRAMS
                           
                           
                           
                        
                        
                           064A
                           CLASSIFIED PROGRAMS
                           25,476,312
                           25,476,312
                        
                        
                           
                           
                              SPARES AND REPAIR PARTS
                           
                           
                           
                        
                        
                           065
                           SPARES AND REPAIR PARTS (CYBER)
                           1,056
                           1,056
                        
                        
                           066
                           SPARES AND REPAIR PARTS
                           7,637
                           7,637
                        
                        
                           
                           
                               TOTAL OTHER PROCUREMENT, AIR FORCE
                           
                           
                              30,298,764
                           
                           
                              30,201,264
                           
                        
                        
                           
                           
                           
                           
                        
                        
                           
                           
                              PROCUREMENT, DEFENSE-WIDE
                           
                           
                           
                        
                        
                           
                           
                              MAJOR EQUIPMENT, OSD
                           
                           
                           
                        
                        
                           001
                           MAJOR EQUIPMENT, DPAA
                           518
                           518
                        
                        
                           002
                           MAJOR EQUIPMENT, OSD
                           184,095
                           184,095
                        
                        
                           
                           
                              MAJOR EQUIPMENT, WHS
                           
                           
                           
                        
                        
                           007
                           MAJOR EQUIPMENT, WHS
                           374
                           374
                        
                        
                           
                           
                              MAJOR EQUIPMENT, DISA
                           
                           
                           
                        
                        
                           008
                           INFORMATION SYSTEMS SECURITY
                           25,392
                           25,392
                        
                        
                           009
                           TELEPORT PROGRAM
                           27,451
                           27,451
                        
                        
                           011
                           ITEMS LESS THAN $5 MILLION
                           25,499
                           25,499
                        
                        
                           012
                           DEFENSE INFORMATION SYSTEM NETWORK
                           68,786
                           68,786
                        
                        
                           013
                           WHITE HOUSE COMMUNICATION AGENCY
                           116,320
                           116,320
                        
                        
                           014
                           SENIOR LEADERSHIP ENTERPRISE
                           54,278
                           54,278
                        
                        
                           015
                           JOINT REGIONAL SECURITY STACKS (JRSS)
                           17,213
                           12,213
                        
                        
                           
                            Program decrease
                           
                           [–5,000]
                        
                        
                           016
                           JOINT SERVICE PROVIDER
                           50,462
                           50,462
                        
                        
                           017
                           FOURTH ESTATE NETWORK OPTIMIZATION (4ENO)
                           24,482
                           24,482
                        
                        
                           
                           
                              MAJOR EQUIPMENT, DLA
                           
                           
                           
                        
                        
                           024
                           MAJOR EQUIPMENT
                           53,777
                           53,777
                        
                        
                           
                           
                              MAJOR EQUIPMENT, DCSA
                           
                           
                           
                        
                        
                           025
                           MAJOR EQUIPMENT
                           2,191
                           2,191
                        
                        
                           
                           
                              MAJOR EQUIPMENT, TJS
                           
                           
                           
                        
                        
                           026
                           MAJOR EQUIPMENT, TJS
                           16,345
                           16,345
                        
                        
                           
                           
                              MAJOR EQUIPMENT, MISSILE DEFENSE AGENCY
                           
                           
                           
                        
                        
                           027
                           THAAD
                           246,995
                           246,995
                        
                        
                           028
                           GROUND BASED MIDCOURSE
                           20,796
                           20,796
                        
                        
                           029
                           AEGIS BMD
                           85,000
                           185,000
                        
                        
                           
                            Program decrease—spares
                           
                           [–85,000]
                        
                        
                           
                            Program increase—restore SM–3 IB production
                           
                           [185,000]
                        
                        
                           030
                           BMDS AN/TPY–2 RADARS
                           57,130
                           57,130
                        
                        
                           031
                           SM–3 IIAS
                           406,370
                           406,370
                        
                        
                           032
                           ARROW 3 UPPER TIER SYSTEMS
                           50,000
                           50,000
                        
                        
                           033
                           SHORT RANGE BALLISTIC MISSILE DEFENSE (SRBMD)
                           40,000
                           40,000
                        
                        
                           034
                           DEFENSE OF GUAM PROCUREMENT
                           22,602
                           23,402
                        
                        
                           
                            Guam Defense System—INDOPACOM UPL
                           
                           [800]
                        
                        
                           036
                           IRON DOME
                           110,000
                           110,000
                        
                        
                           037
                           AEGIS BMD HARDWARE AND SOFTWARE
                           32,040
                           32,040
                        
                        
                           
                           
                              MAJOR EQUIPMENT, DHRA
                           
                           
                           
                        
                        
                           038
                           PERSONNEL ADMINISTRATION
                           3,717
                           3,717
                        
                        
                           
                           
                              MAJOR EQUIPMENT, DEFENSE THREAT REDUCTION AGENCY
                           
                           
                           
                        
                        
                           041
                           VEHICLES
                           2,754
                           2,754
                        
                        
                           042
                           OTHER MAJOR EQUIPMENT
                           8,783
                           8,783
                        
                        
                           043
                           DTRA CYBER ACTIVITIES
                           3,429
                           3,429
                        
                        
                           
                           
                              MAJOR EQUIPMENT, DODEA
                           
                           
                           
                        
                        
                           044
                           AUTOMATION/EDUCATIONAL SUPPORT &amp;amp; LOGISTICS
                           1,360
                           1,360
                        
                        
                           
                           
                              MAJOR EQUIPMENT, DMACT
                           
                           
                           
                        
                        
                           045
                           MAJOR EQUIPMENT
                           7,332
                           7,332
                        
                        
                           
                           
                              MAJOR EQUIPMENT, USCYBERCOM
                           
                           
                           
                        
                        
                           046
                           CYBERSPACE OPERATIONS
                           69,066
                           69,066
                        
                        
                           
                           
                              CLASSIFIED PROGRAMS
                           
                           
                           
                        
                        
                           046A
                           CLASSIFIED PROGRAMS
                           599,781
                           598,781
                        
                        
                           
                            Program reduction
                           
                           [–1,000]
                        
                        
                           
                           
                              AVIATION PROGRAMS
                           
                           
                           
                        
                        
                           047
                           ARMED OVERWATCH/TARGETING
                           335,487
                           335,487
                        
                        
                           048
                           MANNED ISR
                           2,500
                           2,500
                        
                        
                           049
                           MC–12
                           400
                           400
                        
                        
                           050
                           ROTARY WING UPGRADES AND SUSTAINMENT
                           220,301
                           218,678
                        
                        
                           
                            MH–60 upgrades unit cost growth
                           
                           [–1,623]
                        
                        
                           051
                           UNMANNED ISR
                           41,717
                           41,717
                        
                        
                           052
                           NON-STANDARD AVIATION
                           7,942
                           7,942
                        
                        
                           053
                           U–28
                           5,259
                           5,259
                        
                        
                           054
                           MH–47 CHINOOK
                           157,413
                           147,265
                        
                        
                           
                            MH–47 unjustified GFE cost growth
                           
                           [–10,148]
                        
                        
                           055
                           CV–22 MODIFICATION
                           49,403
                           49,403
                        
                        
                           056
                           MQ–9 UNMANNED AERIAL VEHICLE
                           19,123
                           19,123
                        
                        
                           057
                           PRECISION STRIKE PACKAGE
                           69,917
                           69,917
                        
                        
                           058
                           AC/MC–130J
                           300,892
                           300,892
                        
                        
                           
                           
                              SHIPBUILDING
                           
                           
                           
                        
                        
                           060
                           UNDERWATER SYSTEMS
                           63,850
                           70,850
                        
                        
                           
                            Deep Submergence Collective Propulsion
                           
                           [7,000]
                        
                        
                           
                           
                              AMMUNITION PROGRAMS
                           
                           
                           
                        
                        
                           061
                           ORDNANCE ITEMS &amp;lt;$5M
                           139,078
                           139,078
                        
                        
                           
                           
                              OTHER PROCUREMENT PROGRAMS
                           
                           
                           
                        
                        
                           062
                           INTELLIGENCE SYSTEMS
                           205,814
                           205,001
                        
                        
                           
                            UAS unit growth
                           
                           [–813]
                        
                        
                           063
                           DISTRIBUTED COMMON GROUND/SURFACE SYSTEMS
                           3,918
                           3,918
                        
                        
                           064
                           OTHER ITEMS &amp;lt;$5M
                           79,015
                           79,015
                        
                        
                           065
                           COMBATANT CRAFT SYSTEMS
                           66,455
                           78,455
                        
                        
                           
                            Combatant Craft Assault—Three additional craft
                           
                           [12,000]
                        
                        
                           066
                           SPECIAL PROGRAMS
                           20,822
                           20,822
                        
                        
                           067
                           TACTICAL VEHICLES
                           53,016
                           42,749
                        
                        
                           
                            JLTV unit cost growth
                           
                           [–4,504]
                        
                        
                           
                            NSCV unit cost growth
                           
                           [–5,763]
                        
                        
                           068
                           WARRIOR SYSTEMS &amp;lt;$5M
                           358,257
                           388,915
                        
                        
                           
                            Blast Exposure Monitoring (BEMO) Systems Acceleration
                           
                           [7,350]
                        
                        
                           
                            NGTC Manpack CERP cost growth
                           
                           [–1,274]
                        
                        
                           
                            On The Move Satellite Communication Terminals
                           
                           [30,300]
                        
                        
                           
                            RAA-VAK
                           
                           [–3,005]
                        
                        
                           
                            VAS Lasers unit cost growth
                           
                           [–2,713]
                        
                        
                           069
                           COMBAT MISSION REQUIREMENTS
                           4,988
                           4,988
                        
                        
                           070
                           OPERATIONAL ENHANCEMENTS INTELLIGENCE
                           23,715
                           23,715
                        
                        
                           071
                           OPERATIONAL ENHANCEMENTS
                           317,092
                           317,092
                        
                        
                           
                           
                              CBDP
                           
                           
                           
                        
                        
                           072
                           CHEMICAL BIOLOGICAL SITUATIONAL AWARENESS
                           215,038
                           215,038
                        
                        
                           073
                           CB PROTECTION &amp;amp; HAZARD MITIGATION
                           211,001
                           211,001
                        
                        
                           
                           
                               TOTAL PROCUREMENT, DEFENSE-WIDE
                           
                           
                              5,406,751
                           
                           
                              5,528,358
                           
                        
                        
                           
                           
                           
                           
                        
                        
                           
                           
                               TOTAL PROCUREMENT
                           
                           
                              166,377,384
                           
                           
                              163,590,293
                           
                        
                     
                  
               
            
         
         
            XLII
            RESEARCH, DEVELOPMENT, TEST, AND EVALUATION
            
               4201.
               RESEARCH, DEVELOPMENT, TEST, AND EVALUATION
               
                  
                  
                     
                     
                     
                     
                     
                     
                        
                           
                              SEC. 4201. RESEARCH, DEVELOPMENT, TEST, AND EVALUATION(In Thousands of Dollars)
                           
                        
                        
                           
                              Line
                           
                           
                              ProgramElement
                           
                           
                              Item
                           
                           
                              FY 2025 Request
                           
                           
                              House Authorized
                           
                        
                     
                     
                        
                           
                           
                           
                              RESEARCH, DEVELOPMENT, TEST AND EVALUATION, ARMY
                           
                           
                           
                        
                        
                           
                           
                           
                              BASIC RESEARCH
                           
                           
                           
                        
                        
                           001
                           0601102A
                           DEFENSE RESEARCH SCIENCES
                           310,191
                           310,191
                        
                        
                           002
                           0601103A
                           UNIVERSITY RESEARCH INITIATIVES
                           78,166
                           78,166
                        
                        
                           003
                           0601104A
                           UNIVERSITY AND INDUSTRY RESEARCH CENTERS
                           109,726
                           112,726
                        
                        
                           
                           
                            Biotechnology Advancements
                           
                           [3,000]
                        
                        
                           004
                           0601121A
                           CYBER COLLABORATIVE RESEARCH ALLIANCE
                           5,525
                           5,525
                        
                        
                           005
                           0601601A
                           ARTIFICIAL INTELLIGENCE AND MACHINE LEARNING BASIC RESEARCH
                           10,309
                           10,309
                        
                        
                           
                           
                           
                               SUBTOTAL BASIC RESEARCH
                           
                           
                              513,917
                           
                           
                              516,917
                           
                        
                        
                           
                           
                           
                           
                           
                        
                        
                           
                           
                           
                              APPLIED RESEARCH
                           
                           
                           
                        
                        
                           006
                           0602002A
                           ARMY AGILE INNOVATION AND DEVELOPMENT-APPLIED RESEARCH
                           8,032
                           8,032
                        
                        
                           007
                           0602134A
                           COUNTER IMPROVISED-THREAT ADVANCED STUDIES
                           6,163
                           6,163
                        
                        
                           008
                           0602141A
                           LETHALITY TECHNOLOGY
                           96,094
                           106,094
                        
                        
                           
                           
                            Advanced Materials and Manufacturing for Modernization
                           
                           [2,500]
                        
                        
                           
                           
                            Assured AI-based autonomous rescue missions
                           
                           [2,500]
                        
                        
                           
                           
                            Autonomous armaments technology for unmanned systems
                           
                           [2,500]
                        
                        
                           
                           
                            Overmatching the speed of battle 
                           
                           [2,500]
                        
                        
                           010
                           0602143A
                           SOLDIER LETHALITY TECHNOLOGY
                           102,236
                           102,236
                        
                        
                           011
                           0602144A
                           GROUND TECHNOLOGY
                           66,707
                           67,707
                        
                        
                           
                           
                            Engineered Roadway Repair Materials for Effective Maneuver of Military Assets
                           
                           [2,500]
                        
                        
                           
                           
                            Isostatic Advanced Armor Production
                           
                           [6,000]
                        
                        
                           
                           
                            Program decrease
                           
                           [–10,000]
                        
                        
                           
                           
                            Rapidly Deployable Field Stations for Extreme Polar Environments
                           
                           [2,500]
                        
                        
                           012
                           0602145A
                           NEXT GENERATION COMBAT VEHICLE TECHNOLOGY
                           149,108
                           158,108
                        
                        
                           
                           
                            Systems Engineering for Autonomous Ground Vehicles
                           
                           [9,000]
                        
                        
                           013
                           0602146A
                           NETWORK C3I TECHNOLOGY
                           84,576
                           94,076
                        
                        
                           
                           
                            Man-portable doppler radar
                           
                           [9,500]
                        
                        
                           014
                           0602147A
                           LONG RANGE PRECISION FIRES TECHNOLOGY
                           32,089
                           59,589
                        
                        
                           
                           
                            Advanced Manufacturing of Energetic Materials
                           
                           [8,500]
                        
                        
                           
                           
                            Low-Cost Missile Systems Development
                           
                           [10,000]
                        
                        
                           
                           
                            Spectrum Dominance with Distributed Apertures
                           
                           [9,000]
                        
                        
                           015
                           0602148A
                           FUTURE VERTICLE LIFT TECHNOLOGY
                           52,685
                           55,185
                        
                        
                           
                           
                            High density eVTOL power source development
                           
                           [2,500]
                        
                        
                           016
                           0602150A
                           AIR AND MISSILE DEFENSE TECHNOLOGY
                           39,188
                           39,188
                        
                        
                           017
                           0602180A
                           ARTIFICIAL INTELLIGENCE AND MACHINE LEARNING TECHNOLOGIES
                           20,319
                           20,319
                        
                        
                           018
                           0602181A
                           ALL DOMAIN CONVERGENCE APPLIED RESEARCH
                           12,269
                           12,269
                        
                        
                           019
                           0602182A
                           C3I APPLIED RESEARCH
                           25,839
                           25,839
                        
                        
                           020
                           0602183A
                           AIR PLATFORM APPLIED RESEARCH
                           53,206
                           53,206
                        
                        
                           021
                           0602184A
                           SOLDIER APPLIED RESEARCH
                           21,069
                           21,069
                        
                        
                           022
                           0602213A
                           C3I APPLIED CYBER
                           28,656
                           28,656
                        
                        
                           023
                           0602386A
                           BIOTECHNOLOGY FOR MATERIALS—APPLIED RESEARCH
                           11,780
                           11,780
                        
                        
                           025
                           0602785A
                           MANPOWER/PERSONNEL/TRAINING TECHNOLOGY
                           19,795
                           19,795
                        
                        
                           026
                           0602787A
                           MEDICAL TECHNOLOGY
                           68,481
                           66,481
                        
                        
                           
                           
                            Intraosseous Antibiotics (IOA) for Osseointegration and Degradable Metal Alloy Orthopedic Implants
                           
                           [3,000]
                        
                        
                           
                           
                            Program decrease
                           
                           [–10,000]
                        
                        
                           
                           
                            Walter Reed Army Institute of Research (WRAIR) Mitochondria Transplantation Program for Traumatic Brain Injury
                           
                           [5,000]
                        
                        
                           026A
                           9999999999
                           CLASSIFIED PROGRAMS
                           35,766
                           35,766
                        
                        
                           
                           
                           
                               SUBTOTAL APPLIED RESEARCH
                           
                           
                              934,058
                           
                           
                              991,558
                           
                        
                        
                           
                           
                           
                           
                           
                        
                        
                           
                           
                           
                              ADVANCED TECHNOLOGY DEVELOPMENT
                           
                           
                           
                        
                        
                           027
                           0603002A
                           MEDICAL ADVANCED TECHNOLOGY
                           3,112
                           11,112
                        
                        
                           
                           
                            Hearing protection communications
                           
                           [8,000]
                        
                        
                           028
                           0603007A
                           MANPOWER, PERSONNEL AND TRAINING ADVANCED TECHNOLOGY
                           16,716
                           16,716
                        
                        
                           029
                           0603025A
                           ARMY AGILE INNOVATION AND DEMONSTRATION
                           14,608
                           14,608
                        
                        
                           030
                           0603040A
                           ARTIFICIAL INTELLIGENCE AND MACHINE LEARNING ADVANCED TECHNOLOGIES
                           18,263
                           18,263
                        
                        
                           031
                           0603041A
                           ALL DOMAIN CONVERGENCE ADVANCED TECHNOLOGY
                           23,722
                           23,722
                        
                        
                           032
                           0603042A
                           C3I ADVANCED TECHNOLOGY
                           22,814
                           22,814
                        
                        
                           033
                           0603043A
                           AIR PLATFORM ADVANCED TECHNOLOGY
                           17,076
                           17,076
                        
                        
                           034
                           0603044A
                           SOLDIER ADVANCED TECHNOLOGY
                           10,133
                           10,133
                        
                        
                           035
                           0603116A
                           LETHALITY ADVANCED TECHNOLOGY
                           33,969
                           36,469
                        
                        
                           
                           
                            Hypersonics test range 
                           
                           [2,500]
                        
                        
                           037
                           0603118A
                           SOLDIER LETHALITY ADVANCED TECHNOLOGY
                           94,899
                           94,899
                        
                        
                           038
                           0603119A
                           GROUND ADVANCED TECHNOLOGY
                           45,880
                           48,380
                        
                        
                           
                           
                            Rapid entry and sustainment for the Arctic
                           
                           [2,500]
                        
                        
                           039
                           0603134A
                           COUNTER IMPROVISED-THREAT SIMULATION
                           21,398
                           21,398
                        
                        
                           040
                           0603386A
                           BIOTECHNOLOGY FOR MATERIALS—ADVANCED RESEARCH
                           36,360
                           36,360
                        
                        
                           041
                           0603457A
                           C3I CYBER ADVANCED DEVELOPMENT
                           19,616
                           19,616
                        
                        
                           042
                           0603461A
                           HIGH PERFORMANCE COMPUTING MODERNIZATION PROGRAM
                           239,597
                           239,597
                        
                        
                           043
                           0603462A
                           NEXT GENERATION COMBAT VEHICLE ADVANCED TECHNOLOGY
                           175,198
                           195,198
                        
                        
                           
                           
                            Silent Watch HTPEM Fuel Cell
                           
                           [10,000]
                        
                        
                           
                           
                            Tech Development for Ground-to-ground Vehicle Aided Target Recognition
                           
                           [10,000]
                        
                        
                           044
                           0603463A
                           NETWORK C3I ADVANCED TECHNOLOGY
                           94,424
                           94,424
                        
                        
                           045
                           0603464A
                           LONG RANGE PRECISION FIRES ADVANCED TECHNOLOGY
                           164,943
                           185,943
                        
                        
                           
                           
                            Low-Cost Rocket Propulsion for Affordable Mass on Tgt
                           
                           [9,000]
                        
                        
                           
                           
                            Virtual Integrated Testbed and Lab for Trusted AI
                           
                           [12,000]
                        
                        
                           046
                           0603465A
                           FUTURE VERTICAL LIFT ADVANCED TECHNOLOGY
                           140,578
                           156,578
                        
                        
                           
                           
                            Additive Manufacturing
                           
                           [10,000]
                        
                        
                           
                           
                            Army Aviation Cybersecurity and Electromagnetic Activity (CEMA)
                           
                           [3,000]
                        
                        
                           
                           
                            Big Data Analytics
                           
                           [3,000]
                        
                        
                           047
                           0603466A
                           AIR AND MISSILE DEFENSE ADVANCED TECHNOLOGY
                           28,333
                           48,433
                        
                        
                           
                           
                            Counter drone munitions
                           
                           [12,500]
                        
                        
                           
                           
                            Distributed Gain 300-KW Laser Weapon System
                           
                           [4,600]
                        
                        
                           
                           
                            RAPID C-sUAS Missile
                           
                           [3,000]
                        
                        
                           049
                           0603920A
                           HUMANITARIAN DEMINING
                           9,272
                           9,272
                        
                        
                           049A
                           9999999999
                           CLASSIFIED PROGRAMS
                           155,526
                           155,526
                        
                        
                           
                           
                           
                               SUBTOTAL ADVANCED TECHNOLOGY DEVELOPMENT
                           
                           
                              1,386,437
                           
                           
                              1,476,537
                           
                        
                        
                           
                           
                           
                           
                           
                        
                        
                           
                           
                           
                              ADVANCED COMPONENT DEVELOPMENT AND PROTOTYPES
                           
                           
                           
                        
                        
                           051
                           0603305A
                           ARMY MISSLE DEFENSE SYSTEMS INTEGRATION
                           13,031
                           16,031
                        
                        
                           
                           
                            Artificial Intelligence Decision Aids for All Domain Operations
                           
                           [3,000]
                        
                        
                           052
                           0603308A
                           ARMY SPACE SYSTEMS INTEGRATION
                           19,659
                           19,659
                        
                        
                           054
                           0603619A
                           LANDMINE WARFARE AND BARRIER—ADV DEV
                           58,617
                           66,617
                        
                        
                           
                           
                            Autonomous landmine detection
                           
                           [8,000]
                        
                        
                           055
                           0603639A
                           TANK AND MEDIUM CALIBER AMMUNITION
                           116,027
                           130,927
                        
                        
                           
                           
                            Assured Precision Weapons and Munitions 
                           
                           [14,900]
                        
                        
                           056
                           0603645A
                           ARMORED SYSTEM MODERNIZATION—ADV DEV
                           23,235
                           23,235
                        
                        
                           057
                           0603747A
                           SOLDIER SUPPORT AND SURVIVABILITY
                           4,059
                           4,059
                        
                        
                           058
                           0603766A
                           TACTICAL ELECTRONIC SURVEILLANCE SYSTEM—ADV DEV
                           90,265
                           90,265
                        
                        
                           059
                           0603774A
                           NIGHT VISION SYSTEMS ADVANCED DEVELOPMENT
                           64,113
                           64,113
                        
                        
                           060
                           0603779A
                           ENVIRONMENTAL QUALITY TECHNOLOGY—DEM/VAL
                           34,091
                           34,091
                        
                        
                           061
                           0603790A
                           NATO RESEARCH AND DEVELOPMENT
                           4,184
                           4,184
                        
                        
                           062
                           0603801A
                           AVIATION—ADV DEV
                           6,591
                           6,591
                        
                        
                           063
                           0603804A
                           LOGISTICS AND ENGINEER EQUIPMENT—ADV DEV
                           12,445
                           12,445
                        
                        
                           064
                           0603807A
                           MEDICAL SYSTEMS—ADV DEV
                           582
                           582
                        
                        
                           065
                           0603827A
                           SOLDIER SYSTEMS—ADVANCED DEVELOPMENT
                           24,284
                           21,930
                        
                        
                           
                           
                            Soldier Systems Advanced Development—Slow Expenditure
                           
                           [–2,354]
                        
                        
                           066
                           0604017A
                           ROBOTICS DEVELOPMENT
                           3,039
                           3,039
                        
                        
                           067
                           0604019A
                           EXPANDED MISSION AREA MISSILE (EMAM)
                           102,589
                           102,589
                        
                        
                           068
                           0604020A
                           CROSS FUNCTIONAL TEAM (CFT) ADVANCED DEVELOPMENT &amp;amp; PROTOTYPING
                           63,831
                           63,831
                        
                        
                           069
                           0604035A
                           LOW EARTH ORBIT (LEO) SATELLITE CAPABILITY
                           21,935
                           21,935
                        
                        
                           070
                           0604036A
                           MULTI-DOMAIN SENSING SYSTEM (MDSS) ADV DEV
                           239,135
                           239,135
                        
                        
                           071
                           0604037A
                           TACTICAL INTEL TARGETING ACCESS NODE (TITAN) ADV DEV
                           4,317
                           4,317
                        
                        
                           072
                           0604100A
                           ANALYSIS OF ALTERNATIVES
                           11,234
                           11,234
                        
                        
                           073
                           0604101A
                           SMALL UNMANNED AERIAL VEHICLE (SUAV) (6.4)
                           1,800
                           1,800
                        
                        
                           074
                           0604103A
                           ELECTRONIC WARFARE PLANNING AND MANAGEMENT TOOL (EWPMT)
                           2,004
                           0
                        
                        
                           
                           
                            Award cancellation
                           
                           [–2,004]
                        
                        
                           075
                           0604113A
                           FUTURE TACTICAL UNMANNED AIRCRAFT SYSTEM (FTUAS)
                           127,870
                           114,140
                        
                        
                           
                           
                            FTUAS—Slow Expenditure
                           
                           [–13,730]
                        
                        
                           076
                           0604114A
                           LOWER TIER AIR MISSILE DEFENSE (LTAMD) SENSOR
                           149,463
                           149,463
                        
                        
                           077
                           0604115A
                           TECHNOLOGY MATURATION INITIATIVES
                           252,000
                           252,000
                        
                        
                           078
                           0604117A
                           MANEUVER—SHORT RANGE AIR DEFENSE (M-SHORAD)
                           315,772
                           253,172
                        
                        
                           
                           
                            Excessive Contractor Logistics Support Growth Inc 2
                           
                           [–25,400]
                        
                        
                           
                           
                            Systems Development Cost Growth Inc 3
                           
                           [–37,200]
                        
                        
                           080
                           0604120A
                           ASSURED POSITIONING, NAVIGATION AND TIMING (PNT)
                           24,168
                           24,168
                        
                        
                           081
                           0604121A
                           SYNTHETIC TRAINING ENVIRONMENT REFINEMENT &amp;amp; PROTOTYPING
                           136,029
                           116,419
                        
                        
                           
                           
                            Program decrease
                           
                           [–6,000]
                        
                        
                           
                           
                            Synthetic Training Environment
                           
                           [–13,610]
                        
                        
                           082
                           0604134A
                           COUNTER IMPROVISED-THREAT DEMONSTRATION, PROTOTYPE DEVELOPMENT, AND TESTING
                           17,341
                           17,341
                        
                        
                           085
                           0604386A
                           BIOTECHNOLOGY FOR MATERIALS—DEM/VAL
                           20,862
                           20,862
                        
                        
                           086
                           0604403A
                           FUTURE INTERCEPTOR
                           8,058
                           8,058
                        
                        
                           088
                           0604531A
                           COUNTER—SMALL UNMANNED AIRCRAFT SYSTEMS ADVANCED DEVELOPMENT
                           59,983
                           64,483
                        
                        
                           
                           
                            Army UPL #3
                           
                           [4,500]
                        
                        
                           090
                           0604541A
                           UNIFIED NETWORK TRANSPORT
                           31,837
                           31,837
                        
                        
                           091
                           0305251A
                           CYBERSPACE OPERATIONS FORCES AND FORCE SUPPORT
                           2,270
                           2,270
                        
                        
                           091A
                           9999999999
                           CLASSIFIED PROGRAMS
                           277,181
                           277,181
                        
                        
                           
                           
                           
                               SUBTOTAL ADVANCED COMPONENT DEVELOPMENT AND PROTOTYPES
                           
                           
                              2,343,901
                           
                           
                              2,274,003
                           
                        
                        
                           
                           
                           
                           
                           
                        
                        
                           
                           
                           
                              SYSTEM DEVELOPMENT AND DEMONSTRATION
                           
                           
                           
                        
                        
                           092
                           0604201A
                           AIRCRAFT AVIONICS
                           7,171
                           17,171
                        
                        
                           
                           
                            Modular Open System Approach Mission Command Development and Evaluation Capability
                           
                           [3,000]
                        
                        
                           
                           
                            Virtual Modification Work Order Digital Engineering Tool
                           
                           [7,000]
                        
                        
                           093
                           0604270A
                           ELECTRONIC WARFARE DEVELOPMENT
                           35,942
                           35,942
                        
                        
                           094
                           0604601A
                           INFANTRY SUPPORT WEAPONS
                           52,586
                           52,586
                        
                        
                           095
                           0604604A
                           MEDIUM TACTICAL VEHICLES
                           15,088
                           15,088
                        
                        
                           096
                           0604611A
                           JAVELIN
                           10,405
                           10,405
                        
                        
                           097
                           0604622A
                           FAMILY OF HEAVY TACTICAL VEHICLES
                           50,011
                           50,011
                        
                        
                           098
                           0604633A
                           AIR TRAFFIC CONTROL
                           982
                           5,982
                        
                        
                           
                           
                            Integrated Mission Planning and Airspace Control Tools (IMPACT)
                           
                           [5,000]
                        
                        
                           099
                           0604641A
                           TACTICAL UNMANNED GROUND VEHICLE (TUGV)
                           92,540
                           92,540
                        
                        
                           100
                           0604642A
                           LIGHT TACTICAL WHEELED VEHICLES
                           100,257
                           89,983
                        
                        
                           
                           
                            Program decrease
                           
                           [–10,274]
                        
                        
                           101
                           0604645A
                           ARMORED SYSTEMS MODERNIZATION (ASM)—ENG DEV
                           48,097
                           48,097
                        
                        
                           102
                           0604710A
                           NIGHT VISION SYSTEMS—ENG DEV
                           89,259
                           89,259
                        
                        
                           103
                           0604713A
                           COMBAT FEEDING, CLOTHING, AND EQUIPMENT
                           3,286
                           3,286
                        
                        
                           104
                           0604715A
                           NON-SYSTEM TRAINING DEVICES—ENG DEV
                           28,427
                           28,427
                        
                        
                           105
                           0604741A
                           AIR DEFENSE COMMAND, CONTROL AND INTELLIGENCE—ENG DEV
                           69,653
                           78,653
                        
                        
                           
                           
                            Air and Missile Defense Common Operating Picture
                           
                           [9,000]
                        
                        
                           106
                           0604742A
                           CONSTRUCTIVE SIMULATION SYSTEMS DEVELOPMENT
                           30,097
                           30,097
                        
                        
                           107
                           0604746A
                           AUTOMATIC TEST EQUIPMENT DEVELOPMENT
                           12,927
                           12,927
                        
                        
                           108
                           0604760A
                           DISTRIBUTIVE INTERACTIVE SIMULATIONS (DIS)—ENG DEV
                           8,914
                           8,914
                        
                        
                           109
                           0604798A
                           BRIGADE ANALYSIS, INTEGRATION AND EVALUATION
                           26,352
                           26,352
                        
                        
                           110
                           0604802A
                           WEAPONS AND MUNITIONS—ENG DEV
                           242,949
                           217,649
                        
                        
                           
                           
                            DOTC excessive development growth
                           
                           [–24,300]
                        
                        
                           
                           
                            Underexecution of 50mm munitions
                           
                           [–1,000]
                        
                        
                           111
                           0604804A
                           LOGISTICS AND ENGINEER EQUIPMENT—ENG DEV
                           41,829
                           41,829
                        
                        
                           112
                           0604805A
                           COMMAND, CONTROL, COMMUNICATIONS SYSTEMS—ENG DEV
                           92,300
                           92,300
                        
                        
                           113
                           0604807A
                           MEDICAL MATERIEL/MEDICAL BIOLOGICAL DEFENSE EQUIPMENT—ENG DEV
                           7,143
                           7,143
                        
                        
                           114
                           0604808A
                           LANDMINE WARFARE/BARRIER—ENG DEV
                           19,134
                           19,134
                        
                        
                           115
                           0604818A
                           ARMY TACTICAL COMMAND &amp;amp; CONTROL HARDWARE &amp;amp; SOFTWARE
                           165,229
                           158,479
                        
                        
                           
                           
                            EACP—Slow Expenditure
                           
                           [–6,750]
                        
                        
                           116
                           0604820A
                           RADAR DEVELOPMENT
                           76,090
                           76,090
                        
                        
                           117
                           0604822A
                           GENERAL FUND ENTERPRISE BUSINESS SYSTEM (GFEBS)
                           1,995
                           1,995
                        
                        
                           118
                           0604827A
                           SOLDIER SYSTEMS—WARRIOR DEM/VAL
                           29,132
                           29,132
                        
                        
                           119
                           0604852A
                           SUITE OF SURVIVABILITY ENHANCEMENT SYSTEMS—EMD
                           77,864
                           77,864
                        
                        
                           120
                           0604854A
                           ARTILLERY SYSTEMS—EMD
                           50,495
                           50,495
                        
                        
                           121
                           0605013A
                           INFORMATION TECHNOLOGY DEVELOPMENT
                           120,076
                           110,076
                        
                        
                           
                           
                            Program decrease
                           
                           [–10,000]
                        
                        
                           122
                           0605018A
                           INTEGRATED PERSONNEL AND PAY SYSTEM-ARMY (IPPS-A)
                           126,354
                           126,354
                        
                        
                           123
                           0605030A
                           JOINT TACTICAL NETWORK CENTER (JTNC)
                           20,191
                           20,191
                        
                        
                           124
                           0605031A
                           JOINT TACTICAL NETWORK (JTN)
                           31,214
                           31,214
                        
                        
                           125
                           0605035A
                           COMMON INFRARED COUNTERMEASURES (CIRCM)
                           11,691
                           11,691
                        
                        
                           126
                           0605036A
                           COMBATING WEAPONS OF MASS DESTRUCTION (CWMD)
                           7,846
                           7,846
                        
                        
                           127
                           0605038A
                           NUCLEAR BIOLOGICAL CHEMICAL RECONNAISSANCE VEHICLE (NBCRV) SENSOR SUITE
                           7,886
                           7,886
                        
                        
                           128
                           0605041A
                           DEFENSIVE CYBER TOOL DEVELOPMENT
                           4,176
                           4,176
                        
                        
                           129
                           0605042A
                           TACTICAL NETWORK RADIO SYSTEMS (LOW-TIER)
                           4,288
                           4,288
                        
                        
                           130
                           0605047A
                           CONTRACT WRITING SYSTEM
                           9,276
                           9,276
                        
                        
                           132
                           0605051A
                           AIRCRAFT SURVIVABILITY DEVELOPMENT
                           38,225
                           38,225
                        
                        
                           133
                           0605052A
                           INDIRECT FIRE PROTECTION CAPABILITY INC 2—BLOCK 1
                           167,912
                           167,912
                        
                        
                           134
                           0605053A
                           GROUND ROBOTICS
                           28,378
                           37,378
                        
                        
                           
                           
                            Tethered sUAS
                           
                           [9,000]
                        
                        
                           135
                           0605054A
                           EMERGING TECHNOLOGY INITIATIVES
                           164,734
                           158,304
                        
                        
                           
                           
                            Delayed expenditure rate
                           
                           [–6,430]
                        
                        
                           137
                           0605144A
                           NEXT GENERATION LOAD DEVICE—MEDIUM
                           2,931
                           2,931
                        
                        
                           138
                           0605148A
                           TACTICAL INTEL TARGETING ACCESS NODE (TITAN) EMD
                           157,036
                           157,036
                        
                        
                           140
                           0605205A
                           SMALL UNMANNED AERIAL VEHICLE (SUAV) (6.5)
                           37,876
                           37,876
                        
                        
                           141
                           0605206A
                           CI AND HUMINT EQUIPMENT PROGRAM-ARMY (CIHEP-A)
                           1,296
                           1,296
                        
                        
                           142
                           0605216A
                           JOINT TARGETING INTEGRATED COMMAND AND COORDINATION SUITE (JTIC2S)
                           28,553
                           28,553
                        
                        
                           143
                           0605224A
                           MULTI-DOMAIN INTELLIGENCE
                           18,913
                           27,913
                        
                        
                           
                           
                            Multi-Domain Intelligence—NextGen Intel Mission Support
                           
                           [10,000]
                        
                        
                           
                           
                            Multi-Domain Intelligence—NextGen Intel Mission Support
                           
                           [–1,000]
                        
                        
                           144
                           0605231A
                           PRECISION STRIKE MISSILE (PRSM)
                           184,046
                           184,046
                        
                        
                           145
                           0605232A
                           HYPERSONICS EMD
                           538,017
                           538,017
                        
                        
                           146
                           0605233A
                           ACCESSIONS INFORMATION ENVIRONMENT (AIE)
                           32,265
                           32,265
                        
                        
                           147
                           0605235A
                           STRATEGIC MID-RANGE CAPABILITY
                           182,823
                           118,723
                        
                        
                           
                           
                            Delayed expenditure rate
                           
                           [–49,100]
                        
                        
                           
                           
                            Expenditure delay
                           
                           [–15,000]
                        
                        
                           148
                           0605236A
                           INTEGRATED TACTICAL COMMUNICATIONS
                           23,363
                           23,363
                        
                        
                           149
                           0605241A
                           FUTURE LONG RANGE ASSAULT AIRCRAFT DEVELOPMENT
                           1,253,637
                           1,253,637
                        
                        
                           150
                           0605242A
                           THEATER SIGINT SYSTEM (TSIGS)
                           6,660
                           6,660
                        
                        
                           151
                           0605244A
                           JOINT REDUCED RANGE ROCKET (JR3)
                           13,565
                           13,565
                        
                        
                           152
                           0605247A
                           SPECTRUM SITUATIONAL AWARENESS SYSTEM (S2AS)
                           9,330
                           9,330
                        
                        
                           153
                           0605450A
                           JOINT AIR-TO-GROUND MISSILE (JAGM)
                           3,030
                           3,030
                        
                        
                           154
                           0605457A
                           ARMY INTEGRATED AIR AND MISSILE DEFENSE (AIAMD)
                           602,045
                           575,045
                        
                        
                           
                           
                            Unjustified THAAD integration
                           
                           [–27,000]
                        
                        
                           155
                           0605531A
                           COUNTER—SMALL UNMANNED AIRCRAFT SYSTEMS SYS DEV &amp;amp; DEMONSTRATION
                           59,563
                           59,563
                        
                        
                           157
                           0605625A
                           MANNED GROUND VEHICLE
                           504,841
                           504,841
                        
                        
                           158
                           0605766A
                           NATIONAL CAPABILITIES INTEGRATION (MIP)
                           16,565
                           16,565
                        
                        
                           159
                           0605812A
                           JOINT LIGHT TACTICAL VEHICLE (JLTV) ENGINEERING AND MANUFACTURING DEVELOPMENT PHASE (EMD)
                           27,013
                           27,013
                        
                        
                           160
                           0605830A
                           AVIATION GROUND SUPPORT EQUIPMENT
                           979
                           979
                        
                        
                           161
                           0303032A
                           TROJAN—RH12
                           3,930
                           3,930
                        
                        
                           163
                           0304270A
                           ELECTRONIC WARFARE DEVELOPMENT
                           131,096
                           131,096
                        
                        
                           163A
                           9999999999
                           CLASSIFIED PROGRAMS
                           83,136
                           83,136
                        
                        
                           
                           
                           
                               SUBTOTAL SYSTEM DEVELOPMENT AND DEMONSTRATION
                           
                           
                              6,150,910
                           
                           
                              6,043,056
                           
                        
                        
                           
                           
                           
                           
                           
                        
                        
                           
                           
                           
                              MANAGEMENT SUPPORT
                           
                           
                           
                        
                        
                           164
                           0604256A
                           THREAT SIMULATOR DEVELOPMENT
                           71,298
                           81,798
                        
                        
                           
                           
                            Threat Counter-Artificial Intelligence (TCAI)
                           
                           [10,500]
                        
                        
                           165
                           0604258A
                           TARGET SYSTEMS DEVELOPMENT
                           15,788
                           30,688
                        
                        
                           
                           
                            Replacement of Foreign Engines for Aerial Targets
                           
                           [14,900]
                        
                        
                           166
                           0604759A
                           MAJOR T&amp;amp;E INVESTMENT
                           78,613
                           78,613
                        
                        
                           167
                           0605103A
                           RAND ARROYO CENTER
                           38,122
                           38,122
                        
                        
                           168
                           0605301A
                           ARMY KWAJALEIN ATOLL
                           321,755
                           321,755
                        
                        
                           169
                           0605326A
                           CONCEPTS EXPERIMENTATION PROGRAM
                           86,645
                           86,645
                        
                        
                           171
                           0605601A
                           ARMY TEST RANGES AND FACILITIES
                           461,085
                           461,085
                        
                        
                           172
                           0605602A
                           ARMY TECHNICAL TEST INSTRUMENTATION AND TARGETS
                           75,591
                           78,591
                        
                        
                           
                           
                            Rapid Assurance Modernization Program
                           
                           [3,000]
                        
                        
                           173
                           0605604A
                           SURVIVABILITY/LETHALITY ANALYSIS
                           37,604
                           37,604
                        
                        
                           174
                           0605606A
                           AIRCRAFT CERTIFICATION
                           2,201
                           2,201
                        
                        
                           176
                           0605706A
                           MATERIEL SYSTEMS ANALYSIS
                           27,420
                           27,420
                        
                        
                           177
                           0605709A
                           EXPLOITATION OF FOREIGN ITEMS
                           6,245
                           6,245
                        
                        
                           178
                           0605712A
                           SUPPORT OF OPERATIONAL TESTING
                           76,088
                           76,088
                        
                        
                           179
                           0605716A
                           ARMY EVALUATION CENTER
                           73,220
                           73,220
                        
                        
                           180
                           0605718A
                           ARMY MODELING &amp;amp; SIM X-CMD COLLABORATION &amp;amp; INTEG
                           11,257
                           11,257
                        
                        
                           181
                           0605801A
                           PROGRAMWIDE ACTIVITIES
                           91,895
                           91,895
                        
                        
                           182
                           0605803A
                           TECHNICAL INFORMATION ACTIVITIES
                           32,385
                           32,385
                        
                        
                           183
                           0605805A
                           MUNITIONS STANDARDIZATION, EFFECTIVENESS AND SAFETY
                           50,766
                           50,766
                        
                        
                           184
                           0605857A
                           ENVIRONMENTAL QUALITY TECHNOLOGY MGMT SUPPORT
                           1,659
                           1,659
                        
                        
                           185
                           0605898A
                           ARMY DIRECT REPORT HEADQUARTERS—R&amp;amp;D - MHA
                           59,727
                           59,727
                        
                        
                           186
                           0606002A
                           RONALD REAGAN BALLISTIC MISSILE DEFENSE TEST SITE
                           73,400
                           73,400
                        
                        
                           187
                           0606003A
                           COUNTERINTEL AND HUMAN INTEL MODERNIZATION
                           4,574
                           4,574
                        
                        
                           188
                           0606942A
                           ASSESSMENTS AND EVALUATIONS CYBER VULNERABILITIES
                           10,105
                           10,105
                        
                        
                           
                           
                           
                               SUBTOTAL MANAGEMENT SUPPORT
                           
                           
                              1,707,443
                           
                           
                              1,735,843
                           
                        
                        
                           
                           
                           
                           
                           
                        
                        
                           
                           
                           
                              OPERATIONAL SYSTEM DEVELOPMENT
                           
                           
                           
                        
                        
                           190
                           0603778A
                           MLRS PRODUCT IMPROVEMENT PROGRAM
                           14,188
                           14,188
                        
                        
                           191
                           0605024A
                           ANTI-TAMPER TECHNOLOGY SUPPORT
                           7,489
                           7,489
                        
                        
                           192
                           0607101A
                           COMBATING WEAPONS OF MASS DESTRUCTION (CWMD) PRODUCT IMPROVEMENT
                           271
                           271
                        
                        
                           193
                           0607131A
                           WEAPONS AND MUNITIONS PRODUCT IMPROVEMENT PROGRAMS
                           9,363
                           9,363
                        
                        
                           194
                           0607136A
                           BLACKHAWK PRODUCT IMPROVEMENT PROGRAM
                           25,000
                           25,000
                        
                        
                           195
                           0607137A
                           CHINOOK PRODUCT IMPROVEMENT PROGRAM
                           4,816
                           4,816
                        
                        
                           196
                           0607139A
                           IMPROVED TURBINE ENGINE PROGRAM
                           67,029
                           97,029
                        
                        
                           
                           
                            Program increase
                           
                           [30,000]
                        
                        
                           198
                           0607143A
                           UNMANNED AIRCRAFT SYSTEM UNIVERSAL PRODUCTS
                           24,539
                           24,539
                        
                        
                           199
                           0607145A
                           APACHE FUTURE DEVELOPMENT
                           8,243
                           8,243
                        
                        
                           200
                           0607148A
                           AN/TPQ–53 COUNTERFIRE TARGET ACQUISITION RADAR SYSTEM
                           53,652
                           53,652
                        
                        
                           201
                           0607150A
                           INTEL CYBER DEVELOPMENT
                           9,753
                           9,753
                        
                        
                           203
                           0607313A
                           ELECTRONIC WARFARE DEVELOPMENT
                           5,559
                           5,559
                        
                        
                           204
                           0607315A
                           ENDURING TURBINE ENGINES AND POWER SYSTEMS
                           2,620
                           2,620
                        
                        
                           206
                           0607665A
                           FAMILY OF BIOMETRICS
                           590
                           590
                        
                        
                           207
                           0607865A
                           PATRIOT PRODUCT IMPROVEMENT
                           168,458
                           168,458
                        
                        
                           208
                           0203728A
                           JOINT AUTOMATED DEEP OPERATION COORDINATION SYSTEM (JADOCS)
                           27,582
                           27,582
                        
                        
                           209
                           0203735A
                           COMBAT VEHICLE IMPROVEMENT PROGRAMS
                           272,926
                           295,926
                        
                        
                           
                           
                            Stryker Modernization
                           
                           [23,000]
                        
                        
                           210
                           0203743A
                           155MM SELF-PROPELLED HOWITZER IMPROVEMENTS
                           55,205
                           42,205
                        
                        
                           
                           
                            Program rebaseline delay
                           
                           [–13,000]
                        
                        
                           211
                           0203752A
                           AIRCRAFT ENGINE COMPONENT IMPROVEMENT PROGRAM
                           142
                           142
                        
                        
                           212
                           0203758A
                           DIGITIZATION
                           1,562
                           1,562
                        
                        
                           213
                           0203801A
                           MISSILE/AIR DEFENSE PRODUCT IMPROVEMENT PROGRAM
                           1,511
                           1,511
                        
                        
                           214
                           0203802A
                           OTHER MISSILE PRODUCT IMPROVEMENT PROGRAMS
                           23,708
                           23,708
                        
                        
                           215
                           0205412A
                           ENVIRONMENTAL QUALITY TECHNOLOGY—OPERATIONAL SYSTEM DEV
                           269
                           269
                        
                        
                           216
                           0205778A
                           GUIDED MULTIPLE-LAUNCH ROCKET SYSTEM (GMLRS)
                           20,590
                           20,590
                        
                        
                           221
                           0303140A
                           INFORMATION SYSTEMS SECURITY PROGRAM
                           15,733
                           15,733
                        
                        
                           222
                           0303141A
                           GLOBAL COMBAT SUPPORT SYSTEM
                           2,566
                           2,566
                        
                        
                           223
                           0303142A
                           SATCOM GROUND ENVIRONMENT (SPACE)
                           26,643
                           26,643
                        
                        
                           226
                           0305179A
                           INTEGRATED BROADCAST SERVICE (IBS)
                           5,701
                           5,701
                        
                        
                           229
                           0305219A
                           MQ–1 GRAY EAGLE UAV
                           6,681
                           6,681
                        
                        
                           230
                           0708045A
                           END ITEM INDUSTRIAL PREPAREDNESS ACTIVITIES
                           67,187
                           72,187
                        
                        
                           
                           
                            Development and qualification of ultra high molecular weight polyethylene fiber
                           
                           [5,000]
                        
                        
                           230A
                           9999999999
                           CLASSIFIED PROGRAMS
                           32,518
                           32,518
                        
                        
                           
                           
                           
                               SUBTOTAL OPERATIONAL SYSTEM DEVELOPMENT
                           
                           
                              962,094
                           
                           
                              1,007,094
                           
                        
                        
                           
                           
                           
                           
                           
                        
                        
                           
                           
                           
                              SOFTWARE AND DIGITAL TECHNOLOGY PILOT PROGRAMS
                           
                           
                           
                        
                        
                           231
                           0608041A
                           DEFENSIVE CYBER—SOFTWARE PROTOTYPE DEVELOPMENT
                           74,548
                           74,548
                        
                        
                           
                           
                           
                               SUBTOTAL SOFTWARE AND DIGITAL TECHNOLOGY PILOT PROGRAMS
                           
                           
                              74,548
                           
                           
                              74,548
                           
                        
                        
                           
                           
                           
                           
                           
                        
                        
                           
                           
                           
                               TOTAL RESEARCH, DEVELOPMENT, TEST AND EVALUATION, ARMY
                           
                           
                              14,073,308
                           
                           
                              14,119,556
                           
                        
                        
                           
                           
                           
                           
                           
                        
                        
                           
                           
                           
                              RESEARCH, DEVELOPMENT, TEST AND EVALUATION, NAVY
                           
                           
                           
                        
                        
                           
                           
                           
                              BASIC RESEARCH
                           
                           
                           
                        
                        
                           001
                           0601103N
                           UNIVERSITY RESEARCH INITIATIVES
                           94,259
                           94,259
                        
                        
                           002
                           0601153N
                           DEFENSE RESEARCH SCIENCES
                           483,914
                           488,914
                        
                        
                           
                           
                            Hypersonic T&amp;amp;E workforce development 
                           
                           [5,000]
                        
                        
                           
                           
                           
                               SUBTOTAL BASIC RESEARCH
                           
                           
                              578,173
                           
                           
                              583,173
                           
                        
                        
                           
                           
                           
                           
                           
                        
                        
                           
                           
                           
                              APPLIED RESEARCH
                           
                           
                           
                        
                        
                           003
                           0602114N
                           POWER PROJECTION APPLIED RESEARCH
                           23,842
                           23,842
                        
                        
                           004
                           0602123N
                           FORCE PROTECTION APPLIED RESEARCH
                           120,716
                           137,716
                        
                        
                           
                           
                            Composite Characterization
                           
                           [2,500]
                        
                        
                           
                           
                            High-Performance Carbon Fiber for Advanced Rocket Motors
                           
                           [2,500]
                        
                        
                           
                           
                            Intelligent Data Management for Distributed Naval Platforms
                           
                           [12,000]
                        
                        
                           005
                           0602131M
                           MARINE CORPS LANDING FORCE TECHNOLOGY
                           53,758
                           63,758
                        
                        
                           
                           
                            Next generation lithium ion batteries
                           
                           [5,000]
                        
                        
                           
                           
                            Unmanned Logistics
                           
                           [5,000]
                        
                        
                           006
                           0602235N
                           COMMON PICTURE APPLIED RESEARCH
                           51,202
                           63,202
                        
                        
                           
                           
                            Embedded Systems Cyber for Critical Naval Infrastructure
                           
                           [12,000]
                        
                        
                           007
                           0602236N
                           WARFIGHTER SUSTAINMENT APPLIED RESEARCH
                           76,379
                           71,379
                        
                        
                           
                           
                            Program decrease
                           
                           [–5,000]
                        
                        
                           008
                           0602271N
                           ELECTROMAGNETIC SYSTEMS APPLIED RESEARCH
                           91,441
                           91,441
                        
                        
                           009
                           0602435N
                           OCEAN WARFIGHTING ENVIRONMENT APPLIED RESEARCH
                           78,930
                           91,430
                        
                        
                           
                           
                            Continuous distributed sensing systems
                           
                           [10,000]
                        
                        
                           
                           
                            Multi-Frequency Satellite Data Reception and Technological Upgrades
                           
                           [2,500]
                        
                        
                           010
                           0602651M
                           JOINT NON-LETHAL WEAPONS APPLIED RESEARCH
                           7,719
                           7,719
                        
                        
                           011
                           0602747N
                           UNDERSEA WARFARE APPLIED RESEARCH
                           57,525
                           62,525
                        
                        
                           
                           
                            Academic Partnerships for undersea vehicle research 
                           
                           [2,500]
                        
                        
                           
                           
                            Undersea Research Facilities Capability 
                           
                           [2,500]
                        
                        
                           012
                           0602750N
                           FUTURE NAVAL CAPABILITIES APPLIED RESEARCH
                           163,673
                           158,673
                        
                        
                           
                           
                            Program decrease
                           
                           [–5,000]
                        
                        
                           013
                           0602782N
                           MINE AND EXPEDITIONARY WARFARE APPLIED RESEARCH
                           31,460
                           31,460
                        
                        
                           014
                           0602792N
                           INNOVATIVE NAVAL PROTOTYPES (INP) APPLIED RESEARCH
                           127,363
                           122,363
                        
                        
                           
                           
                            Program decrease
                           
                           [–5,000]
                        
                        
                           015
                           0602861N
                           SCIENCE AND TECHNOLOGY MANAGEMENT—ONR FIELD ACITIVITIES
                           90,939
                           90,939
                        
                        
                           
                           
                           
                               SUBTOTAL APPLIED RESEARCH
                           
                           
                              974,947
                           
                           
                              1,016,447
                           
                        
                        
                           
                           
                           
                           
                           
                        
                        
                           
                           
                           
                              ADVANCED TECHNOLOGY DEVELOPMENT
                           
                           
                           
                        
                        
                           016
                           0603123N
                           FORCE PROTECTION ADVANCED TECHNOLOGY
                           31,556
                           31,556
                        
                        
                           017
                           0603271N
                           ELECTROMAGNETIC SYSTEMS ADVANCED TECHNOLOGY
                           8,537
                           8,537
                        
                        
                           018
                           0603273N
                           SCIENCE &amp;amp; TECHNOLOGY FOR NUCLEAR RE-ENTRY SYSTEMS
                           118,624
                           118,624
                        
                        
                           019
                           0603640M
                           USMC ADVANCED TECHNOLOGY DEMONSTRATION (ATD)
                           243,247
                           250,747
                        
                        
                           
                           
                            Expeditionary Airborne Logistics in support of maritime operations
                           
                           [2,500]
                        
                        
                           
                           
                            KARGO UAS
                           
                           [5,000]
                        
                        
                           020
                           0603651M
                           JOINT NON-LETHAL WEAPONS TECHNOLOGY DEVELOPMENT
                           16,188
                           16,188
                        
                        
                           021
                           0603673N
                           FUTURE NAVAL CAPABILITIES ADVANCED TECHNOLOGY DEVELOPMENT
                           262,869
                           267,869
                        
                        
                           
                           
                            Integration of aligned Carbon Nanotube Technology onto mission-critical Navy systems
                           
                           [5,000]
                        
                        
                           022
                           0603680N
                           MANUFACTURING TECHNOLOGY PROGRAM
                           63,084
                           63,084
                        
                        
                           023
                           0603729N
                           WARFIGHTER PROTECTION ADVANCED TECHNOLOGY
                           5,105
                           5,105
                        
                        
                           024
                           0603758N
                           NAVY WARFIGHTING EXPERIMENTS AND DEMONSTRATIONS
                           97,615
                           97,615
                        
                        
                           025
                           0603782N
                           MINE AND EXPEDITIONARY WARFARE ADVANCED TECHNOLOGY
                           2,050
                           2,050
                        
                        
                           026
                           0603801N
                           INNOVATIVE NAVAL PROTOTYPES (INP) ADVANCED TECHNOLOGY DEVELOPMENT
                           131,288
                           131,288
                        
                        
                           
                           
                           
                               SUBTOTAL ADVANCED TECHNOLOGY DEVELOPMENT
                           
                           
                              980,163
                           
                           
                              992,663
                           
                        
                        
                           
                           
                           
                           
                           
                        
                        
                           
                           
                           
                              ADVANCED COMPONENT DEVELOPMENT AND PROTOTYPES
                           
                           
                           
                        
                        
                           027
                           0603128N
                           UNMANNED AERIAL SYSTEM
                           99,940
                           99,940
                        
                        
                           028
                           0603178N
                           LARGE UNMANNED SURFACE VEHICLES (LUSV)
                           53,964
                           53,964
                        
                        
                           029
                           0603207N
                           AIR/OCEAN TACTICAL APPLICATIONS
                           41,765
                           51,765
                        
                        
                           
                           
                            Advanced Component Development &amp;amp; Prototypes
                           
                           [10,000]
                        
                        
                           030
                           0603216N
                           AVIATION SURVIVABILITY
                           23,115
                           23,115
                        
                        
                           031
                           0603239N
                           NAVAL CONSTRUCTION FORCES
                           7,866
                           27,866
                        
                        
                           
                           
                            Autonomy Kits for Port and Airfield damage Repair
                           
                           [20,000]
                        
                        
                           032
                           0603254N
                           ASW SYSTEMS DEVELOPMENT
                           20,033
                           20,033
                        
                        
                           033
                           0603261N
                           TACTICAL AIRBORNE RECONNAISSANCE
                           3,358
                           3,358
                        
                        
                           034
                           0603382N
                           ADVANCED COMBAT SYSTEMS TECHNOLOGY
                           2,051
                           2,051
                        
                        
                           035
                           0603502N
                           SURFACE AND SHALLOW WATER MINE COUNTERMEASURES
                           29,421
                           29,421
                        
                        
                           036
                           0603506N
                           SURFACE SHIP TORPEDO DEFENSE
                           4,790
                           4,790
                        
                        
                           037
                           0603512N
                           CARRIER SYSTEMS DEVELOPMENT
                           5,659
                           5,659
                        
                        
                           038
                           0603525N
                           PILOT FISH
                           1,007,324
                           1,007,324
                        
                        
                           040
                           0603536N
                           RETRACT JUNIPER
                           199,172
                           199,172
                        
                        
                           041
                           0603542N
                           RADIOLOGICAL CONTROL
                           801
                           801
                        
                        
                           042
                           0603553N
                           SURFACE ASW
                           1,194
                           1,194
                        
                        
                           043
                           0603561N
                           ADVANCED SUBMARINE SYSTEM DEVELOPMENT
                           96,694
                           103,694
                        
                        
                           
                           
                            New Solutions for Hull Treatments
                           
                           [7,000]
                        
                        
                           044
                           0603562N
                           SUBMARINE TACTICAL WARFARE SYSTEMS
                           14,924
                           14,924
                        
                        
                           045
                           0603563N
                           SHIP CONCEPT ADVANCED DESIGN
                           110,800
                           116,800
                        
                        
                           
                           
                            Hybrid Robotic Automation Demonstration 
                           
                           [4,000]
                        
                        
                           
                           
                            Intumescent fire protective marine cable coating
                           
                           [2,000]
                        
                        
                           046
                           0603564N
                           SHIP PRELIMINARY DESIGN &amp;amp; FEASIBILITY STUDIES
                           52,586
                           52,586
                        
                        
                           047
                           0603570N
                           ADVANCED NUCLEAR POWER SYSTEMS
                           368,002
                           368,002
                        
                        
                           048
                           0603573N
                           ADVANCED SURFACE MACHINERY SYSTEMS
                           93,942
                           97,942
                        
                        
                           
                           
                            Silicon Carbide Flexible Bus Node
                           
                           [4,000]
                        
                        
                           049
                           0603576N
                           CHALK EAGLE
                           137,372
                           137,372
                        
                        
                           050
                           0603581N
                           LITTORAL COMBAT SHIP (LCS)
                           9,132
                           –5,868
                        
                        
                           
                           
                            Unjustified request
                           
                           [–15,000]
                        
                        
                           051
                           0603582N
                           COMBAT SYSTEM INTEGRATION
                           20,135
                           20,135
                        
                        
                           052
                           0603595N
                           OHIO REPLACEMENT
                           189,631
                           196,631
                        
                        
                           
                           
                            Advanced Composites for Wet Submarine Applications
                           
                           [7,000]
                        
                        
                           053
                           0603596N
                           LCS MISSION MODULES
                           28,801
                           28,801
                        
                        
                           054
                           0603597N
                           AUTOMATED TEST AND RE-TEST (ATRT)
                           10,805
                           10,805
                        
                        
                           055
                           0603599N
                           FRIGATE DEVELOPMENT
                           107,658
                           97,658
                        
                        
                           
                           
                            Program decrease
                           
                           [–10,000]
                        
                        
                           056
                           0603609N
                           CONVENTIONAL MUNITIONS
                           8,950
                           8,950
                        
                        
                           057
                           0603635M
                           MARINE CORPS GROUND COMBAT/SUPPORT SYSTEM
                           103,860
                           103,860
                        
                        
                           058
                           0603654N
                           JOINT SERVICE EXPLOSIVE ORDNANCE DEVELOPMENT
                           47,339
                           47,339
                        
                        
                           059
                           0603713N
                           OCEAN ENGINEERING TECHNOLOGY DEVELOPMENT
                           15,587
                           15,587
                        
                        
                           060
                           0603721N
                           ENVIRONMENTAL PROTECTION
                           23,258
                           23,258
                        
                        
                           061
                           0603724N
                           NAVY ENERGY PROGRAM
                           60,610
                           65,610
                        
                        
                           
                           
                            Marine Energy Systems for Sensors and Microgrids
                           
                           [5,000]
                        
                        
                           062
                           0603725N
                           FACILITIES IMPROVEMENT
                           9,067
                           9,067
                        
                        
                           063
                           0603734N
                           CHALK CORAL
                           459,791
                           859,791
                        
                        
                           
                           
                            Non-traditional F2T2 Capability—INDOPACOM UPL
                           
                           [400,000]
                        
                        
                           064
                           0603739N
                           NAVY LOGISTIC PRODUCTIVITY
                           6,059
                           6,059
                        
                        
                           065
                           0603746N
                           RETRACT MAPLE
                           628,958
                           628,958
                        
                        
                           066
                           0603748N
                           LINK PLUMERIA
                           346,553
                           346,553
                        
                        
                           067
                           0603751N
                           RETRACT ELM
                           99,939
                           99,939
                        
                        
                           068
                           0603764M
                           LINK EVERGREEN
                           460,721
                           460,721
                        
                        
                           069
                           0603790N
                           NATO RESEARCH AND DEVELOPMENT
                           5,151
                           5,151
                        
                        
                           070
                           0603795N
                           LAND ATTACK TECHNOLOGY
                           1,686
                           1,686
                        
                        
                           071
                           0603851M
                           JOINT NON-LETHAL WEAPONS TESTING
                           30,263
                           30,263
                        
                        
                           072
                           0603860N
                           JOINT PRECISION APPROACH AND LANDING SYSTEMS—DEM/VAL
                           4,047
                           4,047
                        
                        
                           073
                           0603925N
                           DIRECTED ENERGY AND ELECTRIC WEAPON SYSTEMS
                           9,877
                           9,877
                        
                        
                           074
                           0604014N
                           F/A –18 INFRARED SEARCH AND TRACK (IRST)
                           8,630
                           8,630
                        
                        
                           075
                           0604027N
                           DIGITAL WARFARE OFFICE
                           128,997
                           123,997
                        
                        
                           
                           
                            Program decrease
                           
                           [–5,000]
                        
                        
                           076
                           0604028N
                           SMALL AND MEDIUM UNMANNED UNDERSEA VEHICLES
                           52,994
                           52,994
                        
                        
                           077
                           0604029N
                           UNMANNED UNDERSEA VEHICLE CORE TECHNOLOGIES
                           68,152
                           68,152
                        
                        
                           078
                           0604030N
                           RAPID PROTOTYPING, EXPERIMENTATION AND DEMONSTRATION.
                           168,855
                           168,855
                        
                        
                           079
                           0604031N
                           LARGE UNMANNED UNDERSEA VEHICLES
                           6,874
                           6,874
                        
                        
                           080
                           0604112N
                           GERALD R. FORD CLASS NUCLEAR AIRCRAFT CARRIER (CVN 78—80)
                           96,670
                           96,670
                        
                        
                           082
                           0604127N
                           SURFACE MINE COUNTERMEASURES
                           15,271
                           15,271
                        
                        
                           083
                           0604272N
                           TACTICAL AIR DIRECTIONAL INFRARED COUNTERMEASURES (TADIRCM)
                           35,030
                           35,030
                        
                        
                           084
                           0604289M
                           NEXT GENERATION LOGISTICS
                           8,114
                           8,114
                        
                        
                           085
                           0604292N
                           FUTURE VERTICAL LIFT (MARITIME STRIKE)
                           4,796
                           4,796
                        
                        
                           086
                           0604295M
                           MARINE AVIATION DEMONSTRATION/VALIDATION
                           62,317
                           62,317
                        
                        
                           087
                           0604320M
                           RAPID TECHNOLOGY CAPABILITY PROTOTYPE
                           120,392
                           120,392
                        
                        
                           088
                           0604454N
                           LX (R)
                           12,785
                           12,785
                        
                        
                           089
                           0604536N
                           ADVANCED UNDERSEA PROTOTYPING
                           21,466
                           21,466
                        
                        
                           090
                           0604636N
                           COUNTER UNMANNED AIRCRAFT SYSTEMS (C-UAS)
                           14,185
                           14,185
                        
                        
                           091
                           0604659N
                           PRECISION STRIKE WEAPONS DEVELOPMENT PROGRAM
                           5,667
                           195,667
                        
                        
                           
                           
                            SLCM-N
                           
                           [190,000]
                        
                        
                           092
                           0604707N
                           SPACE AND ELECTRONIC WARFARE (SEW) ARCHITECTURE/ENGINEERING SUPPORT
                           8,896
                           8,896
                        
                        
                           093
                           0604786N
                           OFFENSIVE ANTI-SURFACE WARFARE WEAPON DEVELOPMENT
                           341,907
                           341,907
                        
                        
                           094
                           0605512N
                           MEDIUM UNMANNED SURFACE VEHICLES (MUSVS))
                           101,838
                           101,838
                        
                        
                           095
                           0605513N
                           UNMANNED SURFACE VEHICLE ENABLING CAPABILITIES
                           92,868
                           92,868
                        
                        
                           096
                           0605514M
                           GROUND BASED ANTI-SHIP MISSILE
                           50,916
                           50,916
                        
                        
                           097
                           0605516M
                           LONG RANGE FIRES
                           30,092
                           30,092
                        
                        
                           098
                           0605518N
                           CONVENTIONAL PROMPT STRIKE (CPS)
                           903,927
                           903,927
                        
                        
                           099
                           0303354N
                           ASW SYSTEMS DEVELOPMENT—MIP
                           7,253
                           7,253
                        
                        
                           100
                           0304240M
                           ADVANCED TACTICAL UNMANNED AIRCRAFT SYSTEM
                           3,504
                           3,504
                        
                        
                           101
                           0304270N
                           ELECTRONIC WARFARE DEVELOPMENT—MIP
                           1,395
                           1,395
                        
                        
                           102
                           0304797N
                           UNDERSEA ARTIFICIAL INTELLIGENCE / MACHINE LEARNING (AI/ML)
                           28,563
                           28,563
                        
                        
                           
                           
                           
                               SUBTOTAL ADVANCED COMPONENT DEVELOPMENT AND PROTOTYPES
                           
                           
                              7,465,005
                           
                           
                              8,084,005
                           
                        
                        
                           
                           
                           
                           
                           
                        
                        
                           
                           
                           
                              SYSTEM DEVELOPMENT AND DEMONSTRATION
                           
                           
                           
                        
                        
                           103
                           0603208N
                           TRAINING SYSTEM AIRCRAFT
                           26,120
                           26,120
                        
                        
                           104
                           0604038N
                           MARITIME TARGETING CELL
                           43,301
                           43,301
                        
                        
                           107
                           0604214M
                           AV–8B AIRCRAFT—ENG DEV
                           5,320
                           5,320
                        
                        
                           108
                           0604215N
                           STANDARDS DEVELOPMENT
                           5,120
                           5,120
                        
                        
                           109
                           0604216N
                           MULTI-MISSION HELICOPTER UPGRADE DEVELOPMENT
                           60,438
                           60,438
                        
                        
                           111
                           0604230N
                           WARFARE SUPPORT SYSTEM
                           108,432
                           108,432
                        
                        
                           112
                           0604231N
                           COMMAND AND CONTROL SYSTEMS
                           164,391
                           164,391
                        
                        
                           113
                           0604234N
                           ADVANCED HAWKEYE
                           301,384
                           301,384
                        
                        
                           114
                           0604245M
                           H–1 UPGRADES
                           39,023
                           39,023
                        
                        
                           115
                           0604261N
                           ACOUSTIC SEARCH SENSORS
                           53,591
                           53,591
                        
                        
                           116
                           0604262N
                           V–22A
                           109,431
                           109,431
                        
                        
                           117
                           0604264N
                           AIR CREW SYSTEMS DEVELOPMENT
                           29,330
                           29,330
                        
                        
                           118
                           0604269N
                           EA–18
                           223,266
                           200,966
                        
                        
                           
                           
                            SLM delay
                           
                           [–22,300]
                        
                        
                           119
                           0604270N
                           ELECTRONIC WARFARE DEVELOPMENT
                           189,750
                           189,750
                        
                        
                           120
                           0604273M
                           EXECUTIVE HELO DEVELOPMENT
                           51,366
                           51,366
                        
                        
                           121
                           0604274N
                           NEXT GENERATION JAMMER (NGJ)
                           86,721
                           86,721
                        
                        
                           122
                           0604280N
                           JOINT TACTICAL RADIO SYSTEM—NAVY (JTRS-NAVY)
                           330,559
                           340,559
                        
                        
                           
                           
                            Network Tactical Common Data Link—Phased Array Antenna Qualification
                           
                           [10,000]
                        
                        
                           123
                           0604282N
                           NEXT GENERATION JAMMER (NGJ) INCREMENT II
                           209,623
                           172,223
                        
                        
                           
                           
                            Next Generation Jammer—Low Band
                           
                           [–37,400]
                        
                        
                           124
                           0604307N
                           SURFACE COMBATANT COMBAT SYSTEM ENGINEERING
                           528,234
                           528,234
                        
                        
                           125
                           0604329N
                           SMALL DIAMETER BOMB (SDB)
                           19,744
                           19,744
                        
                        
                           126
                           0604366N
                           STANDARD MISSILE IMPROVEMENTS
                           468,297
                           468,297
                        
                        
                           127
                           0604373N
                           AIRBORNE MCM
                           11,066
                           11,066
                        
                        
                           128
                           0604378N
                           NAVAL INTEGRATED FIRE CONTROL—COUNTER AIR SYSTEMS ENGINEERING
                           41,419
                           41,419
                        
                        
                           130
                           0604501N
                           ADVANCED ABOVE WATER SENSORS
                           112,231
                           112,231
                        
                        
                           131
                           0604503N
                           SSN–688 AND TRIDENT MODERNIZATION
                           97,953
                           97,953
                        
                        
                           132
                           0604504N
                           AIR CONTROL
                           84,458
                           84,458
                        
                        
                           133
                           0604512N
                           SHIPBOARD AVIATION SYSTEMS
                           10,742
                           10,742
                        
                        
                           134
                           0604518N
                           COMBAT INFORMATION CENTER CONVERSION
                           10,621
                           10,621
                        
                        
                           135
                           0604522N
                           AIR AND MISSILE DEFENSE RADAR (AMDR) SYSTEM
                           107,924
                           107,924
                        
                        
                           136
                           0604530N
                           ADVANCED ARRESTING GEAR (AAG)
                           9,142
                           9,142
                        
                        
                           137
                           0604558N
                           NEW DESIGN SSN
                           273,848
                           280,848
                        
                        
                           
                           
                            Advanced Submarine Control / Precision Maneuvering Unit
                           
                           [7,000]
                        
                        
                           138
                           0604562N
                           SUBMARINE TACTICAL WARFARE SYSTEM
                           71,982
                           71,982
                        
                        
                           139
                           0604567N
                           SHIP CONTRACT DESIGN/ LIVE FIRE T&amp;amp;E
                           13,675
                           13,675
                        
                        
                           140
                           0604574N
                           NAVY TACTICAL COMPUTER RESOURCES
                           3,921
                           3,921
                        
                        
                           141
                           0604601N
                           MINE DEVELOPMENT
                           79,411
                           79,411
                        
                        
                           142
                           0604610N
                           LIGHTWEIGHT TORPEDO DEVELOPMENT
                           137,265
                           137,265
                        
                        
                           143
                           0604654N
                           JOINT SERVICE EXPLOSIVE ORDNANCE DEVELOPMENT
                           8,810
                           8,810
                        
                        
                           144
                           0604657M
                           USMC GROUND COMBAT/SUPPORTING ARMS SYSTEMS—ENG DEV
                           33,880
                           33,880
                        
                        
                           145
                           0604703N
                           PERSONNEL, TRAINING, SIMULATION, AND HUMAN FACTORS
                           10,011
                           10,011
                        
                        
                           146
                           0604727N
                           JOINT STANDOFF WEAPON SYSTEMS
                           1,516
                           1,516
                        
                        
                           147
                           0604755N
                           SHIP SELF DEFENSE (DETECT &amp;amp; CONTROL)
                           170,080
                           170,080
                        
                        
                           148
                           0604756N
                           SHIP SELF DEFENSE (ENGAGE: HARD KILL)
                           74,214
                           79,214
                        
                        
                           
                           
                            Navy Hypervelocity Projectile (HVP) ship integration
                           
                           [5,000]
                        
                        
                           149
                           0604757N
                           SHIP SELF DEFENSE (ENGAGE: SOFT KILL/EW)
                           165,599
                           165,599
                        
                        
                           150
                           0604761N
                           INTELLIGENCE ENGINEERING
                           23,810
                           23,810
                        
                        
                           151
                           0604771N
                           MEDICAL DEVELOPMENT
                           8,371
                           8,371
                        
                        
                           152
                           0604777N
                           NAVIGATION/ID SYSTEM
                           44,326
                           44,326
                        
                        
                           155
                           0604850N
                           SSN(X)
                           348,788
                           298,788
                        
                        
                           
                           
                            Program delay
                           
                           [–50,000]
                        
                        
                           156
                           0605013M
                           INFORMATION TECHNOLOGY DEVELOPMENT
                           15,218
                           15,218
                        
                        
                           157
                           0605013N
                           INFORMATION TECHNOLOGY DEVELOPMENT
                           325,004
                           317,504
                        
                        
                           
                           
                            Program decrease
                           
                           [–10,000]
                        
                        
                           
                           
                            Program increase
                           
                           [2,500]
                        
                        
                           158
                           0605024N
                           ANTI-TAMPER TECHNOLOGY SUPPORT
                           3,317
                           3,317
                        
                        
                           159
                           0605180N
                           TACAMO MODERNIZATION
                           775,316
                           775,316
                        
                        
                           160
                           0605212M
                           CH–53K RDTE
                           86,093
                           86,093
                        
                        
                           161
                           0605215N
                           MISSION PLANNING
                           115,390
                           115,390
                        
                        
                           162
                           0605217N
                           COMMON AVIONICS
                           87,053
                           87,053
                        
                        
                           163
                           0605220N
                           SHIP TO SHORE CONNECTOR (SSC)
                           5,697
                           5,697
                        
                        
                           164
                           0605285N
                           NEXT GENERATION FIGHTER
                           453,828
                           363,828
                        
                        
                           
                           
                            Program execution and deferment
                           
                           [–90,000]
                        
                        
                           166
                           0605414N
                           UNMANNED CARRIER AVIATION (UCA)
                           214,919
                           214,919
                        
                        
                           167
                           0605450M
                           JOINT AIR-TO-GROUND MISSILE (JAGM)
                           20,654
                           20,654
                        
                        
                           168
                           0605500N
                           MULTI-MISSION MARITIME AIRCRAFT (MMA)
                           39,096
                           39,096
                        
                        
                           169
                           0605504N
                           MULTI-MISSION MARITIME (MMA) INCREMENT III
                           134,366
                           134,366
                        
                        
                           170
                           0605516N
                           LONG RANGE FIRES
                           120,728
                           120,728
                        
                        
                           171
                           0605611M
                           MARINE CORPS ASSAULT VEHICLES SYSTEM DEVELOPMENT &amp;amp; DEMONSTRATION
                           60,181
                           55,181
                        
                        
                           
                           
                            Slow expenditure rate
                           
                           [–5,000]
                        
                        
                           172
                           0605813M
                           JOINT LIGHT TACTICAL VEHICLE (JLTV) SYSTEM DEVELOPMENT &amp;amp; DEMONSTRATION
                           10,748
                           10,748
                        
                        
                           173
                           0204202N
                           DDG–1000
                           243,042
                           243,042
                        
                        
                           174
                           0301377N
                           COUNTERING ADVANCED CONVENTIONAL WEAPONS (CACW)
                           19,517
                           19,517
                        
                        
                           175
                           0302315N
                           NON-KINETIC COUNTERMEASURE SUPPORT
                           8,324
                           8,324
                        
                        
                           179
                           0304785N
                           ISR &amp;amp; INFO OPERATIONS
                           188,392
                           188,392
                        
                        
                           180
                           0306250M
                           CYBER OPERATIONS TECHNOLOGY DEVELOPMENT
                           7,581
                           7,581
                        
                        
                           
                           
                           
                               SUBTOTAL SYSTEM DEVELOPMENT AND DEMONSTRATION
                           
                           
                              7,942,968
                           
                           
                              7,752,768
                           
                        
                        
                           
                           
                           
                           
                           
                        
                        
                           
                           
                           
                              MANAGEMENT SUPPORT
                           
                           
                           
                        
                        
                           181
                           0604256N
                           THREAT SIMULATOR DEVELOPMENT
                           25,823
                           25,823
                        
                        
                           182
                           0604258N
                           TARGET SYSTEMS DEVELOPMENT
                           17,224
                           17,224
                        
                        
                           183
                           0604759N
                           MAJOR T&amp;amp;E INVESTMENT
                           65,672
                           65,672
                        
                        
                           184
                           0605152N
                           STUDIES AND ANALYSIS SUPPORT—NAVY
                           6,216
                           6,216
                        
                        
                           185
                           0605154N
                           CENTER FOR NAVAL ANALYSES
                           43,648
                           43,648
                        
                        
                           187
                           0605804N
                           TECHNICAL INFORMATION SERVICES
                           1,009
                           1,009
                        
                        
                           188
                           0605853N
                           MANAGEMENT, TECHNICAL &amp;amp; INTERNATIONAL SUPPORT
                           137,521
                           137,521
                        
                        
                           189
                           0605856N
                           STRATEGIC TECHNICAL SUPPORT
                           3,536
                           3,536
                        
                        
                           190
                           0605863N
                           RDT&amp;amp;E SHIP AND AIRCRAFT SUPPORT
                           152,176
                           152,176
                        
                        
                           191
                           0605864N
                           TEST AND EVALUATION SUPPORT
                           477,823
                           477,823
                        
                        
                           192
                           0605865N
                           OPERATIONAL TEST AND EVALUATION CAPABILITY
                           30,603
                           30,603
                        
                        
                           193
                           0605866N
                           NAVY SPACE AND ELECTRONIC WARFARE (SEW) SUPPORT
                           23,668
                           23,668
                        
                        
                           194
                           0605867N
                           SEW SURVEILLANCE/RECONNAISSANCE SUPPORT
                           6,390
                           6,390
                        
                        
                           195
                           0605873M
                           MARINE CORPS PROGRAM WIDE SUPPORT
                           32,700
                           32,700
                        
                        
                           196
                           0605898N
                           MANAGEMENT HQ—R&amp;amp;D
                           42,381
                           42,381
                        
                        
                           197
                           0606295M
                           MARINE AVIATION DEVELOPMENTAL MANAGEMENT AND SUPPORT
                           5,000
                           5,000
                        
                        
                           198
                           0606355N
                           WARFARE INNOVATION MANAGEMENT
                           50,652
                           50,652
                        
                        
                           199
                           0305327N
                           INSIDER THREAT
                           2,920
                           2,920
                        
                        
                           200
                           0902498N
                           MANAGEMENT HEADQUARTERS (DEPARTMENTAL SUPPORT ACTIVITIES)
                           2,234
                           2,234
                        
                        
                           
                           
                           
                               SUBTOTAL MANAGEMENT SUPPORT
                           
                           
                              1,127,196
                           
                           
                              1,127,196
                           
                        
                        
                           
                           
                           
                           
                           
                        
                        
                           
                           
                           
                              OPERATIONAL SYSTEM DEVELOPMENT
                           
                           
                           
                        
                        
                           203
                           0604840M
                           F–35 C2D2
                           480,759
                           432,759
                        
                        
                           
                           
                            Program carryover
                           
                           [–48,000]
                        
                        
                           204
                           0604840N
                           F–35 C2D2
                           466,186
                           420,186
                        
                        
                           
                           
                            Program carryover
                           
                           [–46,000]
                        
                        
                           205
                           0605520M
                           MARINE CORPS AIR DEFENSE WEAPONS SYSTEMS
                           74,119
                           88,519
                        
                        
                           
                           
                            Counter UAS high powered microwave acceleration
                           
                           [14,400]
                        
                        
                           206
                           0607658N
                           COOPERATIVE ENGAGEMENT CAPABILITY (CEC)
                           142,552
                           142,552
                        
                        
                           207
                           0101221N
                           STRATEGIC SUB &amp;amp; WEAPONS SYSTEM SUPPORT
                           403,494
                           413,494
                        
                        
                           
                           
                            Outpost Uncrewed Surveillance System
                           
                           [10,000]
                        
                        
                           208
                           0101224N
                           SSBN SECURITY TECHNOLOGY PROGRAM
                           61,012
                           61,012
                        
                        
                           209
                           0101226N
                           SUBMARINE ACOUSTIC WARFARE DEVELOPMENT
                           96,667
                           96,667
                        
                        
                           210
                           0101402N
                           NAVY STRATEGIC COMMUNICATIONS
                           29,743
                           29,743
                        
                        
                           211
                           0204136N
                           F/A–18 SQUADRONS
                           374,194
                           336,794
                        
                        
                           
                           
                            SLM delay
                           
                           [–37,400]
                        
                        
                           212
                           0204228N
                           SURFACE SUPPORT
                           8,420
                           8,420
                        
                        
                           213
                           0204229N
                           TOMAHAWK AND TOMAHAWK MISSION PLANNING CENTER (TMPC)
                           200,739
                           200,739
                        
                        
                           214
                           0204311N
                           INTEGRATED SURVEILLANCE SYSTEM
                           72,473
                           72,473
                        
                        
                           215
                           0204313N
                           SHIP-TOWED ARRAY SURVEILLANCE SYSTEMS
                           1,428
                           1,428
                        
                        
                           216
                           0204413N
                           AMPHIBIOUS TACTICAL SUPPORT UNITS (DISPLACEMENT CRAFT)
                           2,238
                           2,238
                        
                        
                           217
                           0204460M
                           GROUND/AIR TASK ORIENTED RADAR (G/ATOR)
                           51,346
                           45,946
                        
                        
                           
                           
                            Slow expenditure rate
                           
                           [–5,400]
                        
                        
                           218
                           0204571N
                           CONSOLIDATED TRAINING SYSTEMS DEVELOPMENT
                           159,648
                           159,648
                        
                        
                           219
                           0204575N
                           ELECTRONIC WARFARE (EW) READINESS SUPPORT
                           139,164
                           139,164
                        
                        
                           220
                           0205601N
                           ANTI-RADIATION MISSILE IMPROVEMENT
                           28,682
                           28,682
                        
                        
                           221
                           0205620N
                           SURFACE ASW COMBAT SYSTEM INTEGRATION
                           29,887
                           29,887
                        
                        
                           222
                           0205632N
                           MK–48 ADCAP
                           164,935
                           164,935
                        
                        
                           223
                           0205633N
                           AVIATION IMPROVEMENTS
                           136,276
                           122,676
                        
                        
                           
                           
                            Program carryover
                           
                           [–13,600]
                        
                        
                           224
                           0205675N
                           OPERATIONAL NUCLEAR POWER SYSTEMS
                           167,098
                           167,098
                        
                        
                           225
                           0206313M
                           MARINE CORPS COMMUNICATIONS SYSTEMS
                           145,343
                           145,343
                        
                        
                           226
                           0206335M
                           COMMON AVIATION COMMAND AND CONTROL SYSTEM (CAC2S)
                           18,332
                           18,332
                        
                        
                           227
                           0206623M
                           MARINE CORPS GROUND COMBAT/SUPPORTING ARMS SYSTEMS
                           77,377
                           74,577
                        
                        
                           
                           
                            Slow expenditure rate
                           
                           [–2,800]
                        
                        
                           228
                           0206624M
                           MARINE CORPS COMBAT SERVICES SUPPORT
                           33,641
                           33,641
                        
                        
                           229
                           0206625M
                           USMC INTELLIGENCE/ELECTRONIC WARFARE SYSTEMS (MIP)
                           37,372
                           37,372
                        
                        
                           231
                           0207161N
                           TACTICAL AIM MISSILES
                           31,359
                           31,359
                        
                        
                           232
                           0207163N
                           ADVANCED MEDIUM RANGE AIR-TO-AIR MISSILE (AMRAAM)
                           29,638
                           29,638
                        
                        
                           233
                           0208043N
                           PLANNING AND DECISION AID SYSTEM (PDAS)
                           3,559
                           3,559
                        
                        
                           237
                           0303138N
                           AFLOAT NETWORKS
                           56,915
                           56,915
                        
                        
                           238
                           0303140N
                           INFORMATION SYSTEMS SECURITY PROGRAM
                           35,339
                           35,339
                        
                        
                           239
                           0305192N
                           MILITARY INTELLIGENCE PROGRAM (MIP) ACTIVITIES
                           7,239
                           7,239
                        
                        
                           242
                           0305208M
                           DISTRIBUTED COMMON GROUND/SURFACE SYSTEMS
                           45,550
                           45,550
                        
                        
                           243
                           0305220N
                           MQ–4C TRITON
                           14,402
                           14,402
                        
                        
                           245
                           0305232M
                           RQ–11 UAV
                           2,016
                           14,516
                        
                        
                           
                           
                            Maritimization of the Long-Range Tactical (LRT) SUAS
                           
                           [12,500]
                        
                        
                           247
                           0305241N
                           MULTI-INTELLIGENCE SENSOR DEVELOPMENT
                           40,267
                           40,267
                        
                        
                           248
                           0305242M
                           UNMANNED AERIAL SYSTEMS (UAS) PAYLOADS (MIP)
                           10,917
                           10,917
                        
                        
                           250
                           0305421N
                           MQ–4C TRITON MODERNIZATION
                           444,042
                           444,042
                        
                        
                           251
                           0307577N
                           INTELLIGENCE MISSION DATA (IMD)
                           793
                           793
                        
                        
                           252
                           0308601N
                           MODELING AND SIMULATION SUPPORT
                           10,927
                           10,927
                        
                        
                           253
                           0702207N
                           DEPOT MAINTENANCE (NON-IF)
                           28,799
                           28,799
                        
                        
                           254
                           0708730N
                           MARITIME TECHNOLOGY (MARITECH)
                           4,326
                           4,326
                        
                        
                           254A
                           9999999999
                           CLASSIFIED PROGRAMS
                           2,235,339
                           2,235,339
                        
                        
                           
                           
                           
                               SUBTOTAL OPERATIONAL SYSTEM DEVELOPMENT
                           
                           
                              6,604,552
                           
                           
                              6,488,252
                           
                        
                        
                           
                           
                           
                           
                           
                        
                        
                           
                           
                           
                              SOFTWARE AND DIGITAL TECHNOLOGY PILOT PROGRAMS
                           
                           
                           
                        
                        
                           255
                           0608013N
                           RISK MANAGEMENT INFORMATION—SOFTWARE PILOT PROGRAM
                           14,522
                           14,522
                        
                        
                           256
                           0608231N
                           MARITIME TACTICAL COMMAND AND CONTROL (MTC2)—SOFTWARE PILOT PROGRAM
                           10,289
                           10,289
                        
                        
                           
                           
                           
                               SUBTOTAL SOFTWARE AND DIGITAL TECHNOLOGY PILOT PROGRAMS
                           
                           
                              24,811
                           
                           
                              24,811
                           
                        
                        
                           
                           
                           
                           
                           
                        
                        
                           
                           
                           
                               TOTAL RESEARCH, DEVELOPMENT, TEST AND EVALUATION, NAVY
                           
                           
                              25,697,815
                           
                           
                              26,069,315
                           
                        
                        
                           
                           
                           
                           
                           
                        
                        
                           
                           
                           
                              RESEARCH, DEVELOPMENT, TEST AND EVALUATION, AIR FORCE
                           
                           
                           
                        
                        
                           
                           
                           
                              BASIC RESEARCH
                           
                           
                           
                        
                        
                           001
                           0601102F
                           DEFENSE RESEARCH SCIENCES
                           361,930
                           369,430
                        
                        
                           
                           
                            Innovation of quantum materials
                           
                           [7,500]
                        
                        
                           002
                           0601103F
                           UNIVERSITY RESEARCH INITIATIVES
                           143,372
                           143,372
                        
                        
                           
                           
                           
                               SUBTOTAL BASIC RESEARCH
                           
                           
                              505,302
                           
                           
                              512,802
                           
                        
                        
                           
                           
                           
                           
                           
                        
                        
                           
                           
                           
                              APPLIED RESEARCH
                           
                           
                           
                        
                        
                           003
                           0602020F
                           FUTURE AF CAPABILITIES APPLIED RESEARCH
                           85,477
                           85,477
                        
                        
                           004
                           0602022F
                           UNIVERSITY AFFILIATED RESEARCH CENTER (UARC)—TACTICAL AUTONOMY
                           8,225
                           8,225
                        
                        
                           005
                           0602102F
                           MATERIALS
                           142,336
                           134,836
                        
                        
                           
                           
                            Program decrease
                           
                           [–7,500]
                        
                        
                           006
                           0602201F
                           AEROSPACE VEHICLE TECHNOLOGIES
                           5,235
                           5,235
                        
                        
                           007
                           0602202F
                           HUMAN EFFECTIVENESS APPLIED RESEARCH
                           138,204
                           138,204
                        
                        
                           008
                           0602203F
                           AEROSPACE PROPULSION
                           339,477
                           341,977
                        
                        
                           
                           
                            High mach turbine engine 
                           
                           [2,500]
                        
                        
                           009
                           0602204F
                           AEROSPACE SENSORS
                           193,029
                           193,029
                        
                        
                           011
                           0602298F
                           SCIENCE AND TECHNOLOGY MANAGEMENT— MAJOR HEADQUARTERS ACTIVITIES
                           9,662
                           9,662
                        
                        
                           012
                           0602602F
                           CONVENTIONAL MUNITIONS
                           138,497
                           138,497
                        
                        
                           013
                           0602605F
                           DIRECTED ENERGY TECHNOLOGY
                           114,962
                           117,462
                        
                        
                           
                           
                            Program increase
                           
                           [2,500]
                        
                        
                           014
                           0602788F
                           DOMINANT INFORMATION SCIENCES AND METHODS
                           176,333
                           183,833
                        
                        
                           
                           
                            Autonomy and AI research 
                           
                           [2,500]
                        
                        
                           
                           
                            Future Flag Testbed
                           
                           [5,000]
                        
                        
                           
                           
                           
                               SUBTOTAL APPLIED RESEARCH
                           
                           
                              1,351,437
                           
                           
                              1,356,437
                           
                        
                        
                           
                           
                           
                           
                           
                        
                        
                           
                           
                           
                              ADVANCED TECHNOLOGY DEVELOPMENT
                           
                           
                           
                        
                        
                           015
                           0603032F
                           FUTURE AF INTEGRATED TECHNOLOGY DEMOS
                           248,506
                           238,506
                        
                        
                           
                           
                            Program decrease
                           
                           [–10,000]
                        
                        
                           016
                           0603112F
                           ADVANCED MATERIALS FOR WEAPON SYSTEMS
                           29,661
                           29,661
                        
                        
                           017
                           0603199F
                           SUSTAINMENT SCIENCE AND TECHNOLOGY (S&amp;amp;T)
                           12,558
                           12,558
                        
                        
                           018
                           0603203F
                           ADVANCED AEROSPACE SENSORS
                           37,935
                           37,935
                        
                        
                           019
                           0603211F
                           AEROSPACE TECHNOLOGY DEV/DEMO
                           102,529
                           105,029
                        
                        
                           
                           
                            Reusable Hypersonic Rocket Engine Flight Demo
                           
                           [2,500]
                        
                        
                           020
                           0603216F
                           AEROSPACE PROPULSION AND POWER TECHNOLOGY
                           
                           10,000
                        
                        
                           
                           
                            Medium-Scale CCA Propulsion
                           
                           [10,000]
                        
                        
                           021
                           0603270F
                           ELECTRONIC COMBAT TECHNOLOGY
                           36,445
                           36,445
                        
                        
                           022
                           0603273F
                           SCIENCE &amp;amp; TECHNOLOGY FOR NUCLEAR RE-ENTRY SYSTEMS
                           91,885
                           91,885
                        
                        
                           024
                           0603456F
                           HUMAN EFFECTIVENESS ADVANCED TECHNOLOGY DEVELOPMENT
                           19,568
                           19,568
                        
                        
                           025
                           0603601F
                           CONVENTIONAL WEAPONS TECHNOLOGY
                           125,460
                           125,460
                        
                        
                           026
                           0603605F
                           ADVANCED WEAPONS TECHNOLOGY
                           25,050
                           25,050
                        
                        
                           027
                           0603680F
                           MANUFACTURING TECHNOLOGY PROGRAM
                           34,730
                           37,230
                        
                        
                           
                           
                            Additive manufacturing of super refractory alloys
                           
                           [2,500]
                        
                        
                           028
                           0603788F
                           BATTLESPACE KNOWLEDGE DEVELOPMENT AND DEMONSTRATION
                           26,172
                           21,172
                        
                        
                           
                           
                            Program decrease
                           
                           [–5,000]
                        
                        
                           029
                           0604776F
                           DEPLOYMENT &amp;amp; DISTRIBUTION ENTERPRISE R&amp;amp;D
                           27,762
                           27,762
                        
                        
                           030
                           0207412F
                           CONTROL AND REPORTING CENTER (CRC)
                           2,012
                           2,012
                        
                        
                           
                           
                           
                               SUBTOTAL ADVANCED TECHNOLOGY DEVELOPMENT
                           
                           
                              820,273
                           
                           
                              820,273
                           
                        
                        
                           
                           
                           
                           
                           
                        
                        
                           
                           
                           
                              ADVANCED COMPONENT DEVELOPMENT AND PROTOTYPES
                           
                           
                           
                        
                        
                           032
                           0603260F
                           INTELLIGENCE ADVANCED DEVELOPMENT
                           3,820
                           3,820
                        
                        
                           033
                           0603742F
                           COMBAT IDENTIFICATION TECHNOLOGY
                           24,799
                           24,799
                        
                        
                           034
                           0603790F
                           NATO RESEARCH AND DEVELOPMENT
                           4,498
                           4,498
                        
                        
                           035
                           0603851F
                           INTERCONTINENTAL BALLISTIC MISSILE—DEM/VAL
                           119,197
                           114,197
                        
                        
                           
                           
                            Insufficient justification
                           
                           [–5,000]
                        
                        
                           036
                           0604001F
                           NC3 ADVANCED CONCEPTS
                           10,148
                           10,148
                        
                        
                           037
                           0604003F
                           ADVANCED BATTLE MANAGEMENT SYSTEM (ABMS)
                           743,842
                           743,842
                        
                        
                           038
                           0604004F
                           ADVANCED ENGINE DEVELOPMENT
                           562,337
                           562,337
                        
                        
                           039
                           0604005F
                           NC3 COMMERCIAL DEVELOPMENT &amp;amp; PROTOTYPING
                           68,124
                           68,124
                        
                        
                           041
                           0604007F
                           E–7
                           418,513
                           382,363
                        
                        
                           
                           
                            E–7—Slow Expenditure
                           
                           [–36,150]
                        
                        
                           042
                           0604009F
                           AFWERX PRIME
                           20,580
                           30,580
                        
                        
                           
                           
                            Program increase
                           
                           [10,000]
                        
                        
                           043
                           0604015F
                           LONG RANGE STRIKE—BOMBER
                           2,654,073
                           2,654,073
                        
                        
                           044
                           0604025F
                           RAPID DEFENSE EXPERIMENTATION RESERVE (RDER)
                           75,051
                           75,051
                        
                        
                           045
                           0604032F
                           DIRECTED ENERGY PROTOTYPING
                           3,712
                           3,712
                        
                        
                           047
                           0604183F
                           HYPERSONICS PROTOTYPING—HYPERSONIC ATTACK CRUISE MISSILE (HACM)
                           516,971
                           516,971
                        
                        
                           049
                           0604257F
                           ADVANCED TECHNOLOGY AND SENSORS
                           24,204
                           24,204
                        
                        
                           050
                           0604288F
                           SURVIVABLE AIRBORNE OPERATIONS CENTER (SAOC)
                           1,687,500
                           1,447,500
                        
                        
                           
                           
                            Late contract award
                           
                           [–240,000]
                        
                        
                           051
                           0604317F
                           TECHNOLOGY TRANSFER
                           3,485
                           3,485
                        
                        
                           052
                           0604327F
                           HARD AND DEEPLY BURIED TARGET DEFEAT SYSTEM (HDBTDS) PROGRAM
                           154,417
                           144,417
                        
                        
                           
                           
                            Program decrease
                           
                           [–10,000]
                        
                        
                           053
                           0604414F
                           CYBER RESILIENCY OF WEAPON SYSTEMS-ACS
                           59,539
                           59,539
                        
                        
                           055
                           0604609F
                           REQUIREMENTS ANALYSIS &amp;amp; CONCEPT MATURATION
                           22,667
                           22,667
                        
                        
                           056
                           0604668F
                           JOINT TRANSPORTATION MANAGEMENT SYSTEM (JTMS)
                           174,723
                           169,723
                        
                        
                           
                           
                            Program decrease
                           
                           [–5,000]
                        
                        
                           057
                           0604776F
                           DEPLOYMENT &amp;amp; DISTRIBUTION ENTERPRISE R&amp;amp;D
                           4,840
                           4,840
                        
                        
                           058
                           0604858F
                           TECH TRANSITION PROGRAM
                           234,342
                           211,342
                        
                        
                           
                           
                            Funding carryover
                           
                           [–23,000]
                        
                        
                           059
                           0604860F
                           OPERATIONAL ENERGY AND INSTALLATION RESILIENCE
                           63,194
                           63,194
                        
                        
                           060
                           0605057F
                           NEXT GENERATION AIR-REFUELING SYSTEM
                           7,014
                           7,014
                        
                        
                           061
                           0605164F
                           AIR REFUELING CAPABILITY MODERNIZATION
                           13,661
                           13,661
                        
                        
                           062
                           0606005F
                           DIGITAL TRANSFORMATION OFFICE
                           9,800
                           14,600
                        
                        
                           
                           
                            Software integration laboratory modernization
                           
                           [4,800]
                        
                        
                           064
                           0207110F
                           NEXT GENERATION AIR DOMINANCE
                           3,306,355
                           3,006,355
                        
                        
                           
                           
                            Program delay
                           
                           [–300,000]
                        
                        
                           065
                           0207179F
                           AUTONOMOUS COLLABORATIVE PLATFORMS
                           51,666
                           51,666
                        
                        
                           066
                           0207420F
                           COMBAT IDENTIFICATION
                           1,914
                           1,914
                        
                        
                           067
                           0207431F
                           COMBAT AIR INTELLIGENCE SYSTEM ACTIVITIES
                           18,733
                           18,733
                        
                        
                           068
                           0207448F
                           C2ISR TACTICAL DATA LINK
                           42,371
                           42,371
                        
                        
                           069
                           0207455F
                           THREE DIMENSIONAL LONG-RANGE RADAR (3DELRR)
                           8,100
                           8,100
                        
                        
                           070
                           0207522F
                           AIRBASE AIR DEFENSE SYSTEMS (ABADS)
                           17,273
                           17,273
                        
                        
                           071
                           0207606F
                           JOINT SIMULATION ENVIRONMENT (JSE)
                           191,337
                           191,337
                        
                        
                           072
                           0208030F
                           WAR RESERVE MATERIEL—AMMUNITION
                           5,226
                           5,226
                        
                        
                           073
                           0305236F
                           COMMON DATA LINK EXECUTIVE AGENT (CDL EA)
                           33,349
                           33,349
                        
                        
                           074
                           0305601F
                           MISSION PARTNER ENVIRONMENTS
                           22,028
                           22,028
                        
                        
                           077
                           0708051F
                           RAPID SUSTAINMENT MODERNIZATION (RSM)
                           37,044
                           57,044
                        
                        
                           
                           
                            CBM+
                           
                           [20,000]
                        
                        
                           078
                           0808736F
                           SPECIAL VICTIM ACCOUNTABILITY AND INVESTIGATION
                           3,006
                           3,006
                        
                        
                           079
                           0808737F
                           INTEGRATED PRIMARY PREVENTION
                           5,364
                           5,364
                        
                        
                           080
                           0901410F
                           CONTRACTING INFORMATION TECHNOLOGY SYSTEM
                           28,995
                           28,995
                        
                        
                           081
                           1206415F
                           U.S. SPACE COMMAND RESEARCH AND DEVELOPMENT SUPPORT
                           28,392
                           28,392
                        
                        
                           
                           
                           
                               SUBTOTAL ADVANCED COMPONENT DEVELOPMENT AND PROTOTYPES
                           
                           
                              11,486,204
                           
                           
                              10,901,854
                           
                        
                        
                           
                           
                           
                           
                           
                        
                        
                           
                           
                           
                              SYSTEM DEVELOPMENT AND DEMONSTRATION
                           
                           
                           
                        
                        
                           082
                           0604200F
                           FUTURE ADVANCED WEAPON ANALYSIS &amp;amp; PROGRAMS
                           7,205
                           13,205
                        
                        
                           
                           
                            RAACM
                           
                           [6,000]
                        
                        
                           083
                           0604201F
                           PNT RESILIENCY, MODS, AND IMPROVEMENTS
                           217,662
                           217,662
                        
                        
                           084
                           0604222F
                           NUCLEAR WEAPONS SUPPORT
                           70,823
                           70,823
                        
                        
                           085
                           0604270F
                           ELECTRONIC WARFARE DEVELOPMENT
                           19,264
                           19,264
                        
                        
                           086
                           0604281F
                           TACTICAL DATA NETWORKS ENTERPRISE
                           78,480
                           78,480
                        
                        
                           087
                           0604287F
                           PHYSICAL SECURITY EQUIPMENT
                           10,569
                           10,569
                        
                        
                           088
                           0604336F
                           HARD AND DEEPLY BURIED TARGET DEFEAT SYSTEM (HDBTDS) PROTOTYPING
                           39,079
                           39,079
                        
                        
                           089
                           0604602F
                           ARMAMENT/ORDNANCE DEVELOPMENT
                           7,157
                           7,157
                        
                        
                           090
                           0604604F
                           SUBMUNITIONS
                           3,427
                           3,427
                        
                        
                           091
                           0604617F
                           AGILE COMBAT SUPPORT
                           24,178
                           24,178
                        
                        
                           092
                           0604706F
                           LIFE SUPPORT SYSTEMS
                           25,502
                           25,502
                        
                        
                           093
                           0604735F
                           COMBAT TRAINING RANGES
                           224,783
                           231,783
                        
                        
                           
                           
                            Advanced Radar Threat System Development
                           
                           [7,000]
                        
                        
                           094
                           0604932F
                           LONG RANGE STANDOFF WEAPON
                           623,491
                           623,491
                        
                        
                           095
                           0604933F
                           ICBM FUZE MODERNIZATION
                           10,408
                           10,408
                        
                        
                           098
                           0605056F
                           OPEN ARCHITECTURE MANAGEMENT
                           41,223
                           41,223
                        
                        
                           100
                           0605223F
                           ADVANCED PILOT TRAINING
                           83,985
                           83,985
                        
                        
                           102
                           0605238F
                           GROUND BASED STRATEGIC DETERRENT EMD
                           3,721,024
                           3,721,024
                        
                        
                           104
                           0207279F
                           ISOLATED PERSONNEL SURVIVABILITY AND RECOVERY
                           10,020
                           10,020
                        
                        
                           105
                           0207328F
                           STAND IN ATTACK WEAPON
                           375,528
                           375,528
                        
                        
                           106
                           0207701F
                           FULL COMBAT MISSION TRAINING
                           7,754
                           7,754
                        
                        
                           111
                           0305155F
                           THEATER NUCLEAR WEAPON STORAGE &amp;amp; SECURITY SYSTEM
                           9,018
                           9,018
                        
                        
                           113
                           0401221F
                           KC–46A TANKER SQUADRONS
                           93,620
                           93,620
                        
                        
                           114
                           0401319F
                           VC–25B
                           433,943
                           325,943
                        
                        
                           
                           
                            Program delay
                           
                           [–108,000]
                        
                        
                           115
                           0701212F
                           AUTOMATED TEST SYSTEMS
                           26,640
                           31,640
                        
                        
                           
                           
                            Software Factories
                           
                           [5,000]
                        
                        
                           116
                           0804772F
                           TRAINING DEVELOPMENTS
                           4,960
                           10,060
                        
                        
                           
                           
                            3D Interactive &amp;amp; Immersive Instruction
                           
                           [5,100]
                        
                        
                           117
                           1203176F
                           COMBAT SURVIVOR EVADER LOCATOR
                           2,269
                           2,269
                        
                        
                           
                           
                           
                               SUBTOTAL SYSTEM DEVELOPMENT AND DEMONSTRATION
                           
                           
                              6,172,012
                           
                           
                              6,087,112
                           
                        
                        
                           
                           
                           
                           
                           
                        
                        
                           
                           
                           
                              MANAGEMENT SUPPORT
                           
                           
                           
                        
                        
                           118
                           0604256F
                           THREAT SIMULATOR DEVELOPMENT
                           19,927
                           19,927
                        
                        
                           119
                           0604759F
                           MAJOR T&amp;amp;E INVESTMENT
                           74,228
                           131,228
                        
                        
                           
                           
                            EGTTR Infrastructure Modernization
                           
                           [12,000]
                        
                        
                           
                           
                            Hypersonic Capability Acceleration
                           
                           [30,000]
                        
                        
                           
                           
                            Planning &amp;amp; Design
                           
                           [15,000]
                        
                        
                           120
                           0605101F
                           RAND PROJECT AIR FORCE
                           39,720
                           39,720
                        
                        
                           122
                           0605712F
                           INITIAL OPERATIONAL TEST &amp;amp; EVALUATION
                           14,247
                           14,247
                        
                        
                           123
                           0605807F
                           TEST AND EVALUATION SUPPORT
                           936,913
                           942,213
                        
                        
                           
                           
                            Digital Test Facility Models
                           
                           [5,300]
                        
                        
                           124
                           0605827F
                           ACQ WORKFORCE- GLOBAL VIG &amp;amp; COMBAT SYS
                           316,924
                           316,924
                        
                        
                           125
                           0605828F
                           ACQ WORKFORCE- GLOBAL REACH
                           496,740
                           496,740
                        
                        
                           126
                           0605829F
                           ACQ WORKFORCE- CYBER, NETWORK, &amp;amp; BUS SYS
                           521,987
                           511,987
                        
                        
                           
                           
                            Program decrease
                           
                           [–10,000]
                        
                        
                           128
                           0605831F
                           ACQ WORKFORCE- CAPABILITY INTEGRATION
                           262,349
                           262,349
                        
                        
                           129
                           0605832F
                           ACQ WORKFORCE- ADVANCED PRGM TECHNOLOGY
                           69,319
                           69,319
                        
                        
                           130
                           0605833F
                           ACQ WORKFORCE- NUCLEAR SYSTEMS
                           343,180
                           343,180
                        
                        
                           131
                           0605898F
                           MANAGEMENT HQ—R&amp;amp;D
                           6,291
                           6,291
                        
                        
                           132
                           0605976F
                           FACILITIES RESTORATION AND MODERNIZATION—TEST AND EVALUATION SUPPORT
                           94,828
                           124,828
                        
                        
                           
                           
                            Program increase
                           
                           [30,000]
                        
                        
                           133
                           0605978F
                           FACILITIES SUSTAINMENT—TEST AND EVALUATION SUPPORT
                           63,579
                           63,579
                        
                        
                           134
                           0606017F
                           REQUIREMENTS ANALYSIS AND MATURATION
                           41,550
                           37,450
                        
                        
                           
                           
                            Funding carryover
                           
                           [–4,100]
                        
                        
                           135
                           0606398F
                           MANAGEMENT HQ—T&amp;amp;E
                           7,647
                           7,647
                        
                        
                           137
                           0303255F
                           COMMAND, CONTROL, COMMUNICATION, AND COMPUTERS (C4)—STRATCOM
                           19,607
                           31,607
                        
                        
                           
                           
                            JEMSO dynamic spectrum sharing efforts
                           
                           [1,000]
                        
                        
                           
                           
                            NC3 STRATCOM
                           
                           [10,000]
                        
                        
                           
                           
                            STRATCOM UARC Priority Research
                           
                           [1,000]
                        
                        
                           138
                           0308602F
                           ENTEPRISE INFORMATION SERVICES (EIS)
                           104,133
                           89,133
                        
                        
                           
                           
                            Program decrease
                           
                           [–15,000]
                        
                        
                           139
                           0702806F
                           ACQUISITION AND MANAGEMENT SUPPORT
                           25,216
                           25,216
                        
                        
                           140
                           0804731F
                           GENERAL SKILL TRAINING
                           10
                           10
                        
                        
                           141
                           0804776F
                           ADVANCED DISTRIBUTED LEARNING
                           1,652
                           1,652
                        
                        
                           143
                           1001004F
                           INTERNATIONAL ACTIVITIES
                           4,590
                           4,590
                        
                        
                           
                           
                           
                               SUBTOTAL MANAGEMENT SUPPORT
                           
                           
                              3,464,637
                           
                           
                              3,539,837
                           
                        
                        
                           
                           
                           
                           
                           
                        
                        
                           
                           
                           
                              OPERATIONAL SYSTEM DEVELOPMENT
                           
                           
                           
                        
                        
                           144
                           0604233F
                           SPECIALIZED UNDERGRADUATE FLIGHT TRAINING
                           39,667
                           39,667
                        
                        
                           145
                           0604281F
                           TACTICAL DATA NETWORKS ENTERPRISE
                           22
                           22
                        
                        
                           146
                           0604283F
                           BATTLE MGMT COM &amp;amp; CTRL SENSOR DEVELOPMENT
                           100,183
                           100,183
                        
                        
                           147
                           0604445F
                           WIDE AREA SURVEILLANCE
                           21,443
                           21,443
                        
                        
                           150
                           0604840F
                           F–35 C2D2
                           1,124,207
                           1,874,207
                        
                        
                           
                           
                            Cooperative Avionics Test Bed (CATB) Aircraft
                           
                           [200,000]
                        
                        
                           
                           
                            F–35 System Digital-Twin Models
                           
                           [350,000]
                        
                        
                           
                           
                            Mission Software Integration Laboratory (MSIL)
                           
                           [300,000]
                        
                        
                           
                           
                            Program carryover
                           
                           [–100,000]
                        
                        
                           151
                           0605018F
                           AF INTEGRATED PERSONNEL AND PAY SYSTEM (AF-IPPS)
                           49,739
                           49,739
                        
                        
                           152
                           0605024F
                           ANTI-TAMPER TECHNOLOGY EXECUTIVE AGENCY
                           65,792
                           65,792
                        
                        
                           153
                           0605117F
                           FOREIGN MATERIEL ACQUISITION AND EXPLOITATION
                           94,188
                           94,188
                        
                        
                           154
                           0605229F
                           HH–60W
                           52,314
                           52,314
                        
                        
                           155
                           0605278F
                           HC/MC–130 RECAP RDT&amp;amp;E
                           24,934
                           24,934
                        
                        
                           156
                           0606018F
                           NC3 INTEGRATION
                           21,864
                           21,864
                        
                        
                           157
                           0101113F
                           B–52 SQUADRONS
                           1,045,570
                           1,038,570
                        
                        
                           
                           
                            VLF/LF excessive cost growth
                           
                           [–7,000]
                        
                        
                           158
                           0101122F
                           AIR-LAUNCHED CRUISE MISSILE (ALCM)
                           542
                           542
                        
                        
                           159
                           0101126F
                           B–1B SQUADRONS
                           17,939
                           17,939
                        
                        
                           160
                           0101127F
                           B–2 SQUADRONS
                           41,212
                           41,212
                        
                        
                           161
                           0101213F
                           MINUTEMAN SQUADRONS
                           62,550
                           62,550
                        
                        
                           162
                           0101316F
                           WORLDWIDE JOINT STRATEGIC COMMUNICATIONS
                           13,690
                           13,690
                        
                        
                           163
                           0101318F
                           SERVICE SUPPORT TO STRATCOM—GLOBAL STRIKE
                           7,330
                           7,330
                        
                        
                           165
                           0101328F
                           ICBM REENTRY VEHICLES
                           629,928
                           629,928
                        
                        
                           168
                           0102326F
                           REGION/SECTOR OPERATION CONTROL CENTER MODERNIZATION PROGRAM
                           852
                           852
                        
                        
                           169
                           0102412F
                           NORTH WARNING SYSTEM (NWS)
                           103
                           103
                        
                        
                           170
                           0102417F
                           OVER-THE-HORIZON BACKSCATTER RADAR
                           383,575
                           383,575
                        
                        
                           171
                           0202834F
                           VEHICLES AND SUPPORT EQUIPMENT—GENERAL
                           6,097
                           6,097
                        
                        
                           172
                           0205219F
                           MQ–9 UAV
                           7,074
                           7,074
                        
                        
                           173
                           0205671F
                           JOINT COUNTER RCIED ELECTRONIC WARFARE
                           3,372
                           3,372
                        
                        
                           176
                           0207133F
                           F–16 SQUADRONS
                           106,952
                           106,952
                        
                        
                           177
                           0207134F
                           F–15E SQUADRONS
                           178,603
                           178,603
                        
                        
                           178
                           0207136F
                           MANNED DESTRUCTIVE SUPPRESSION
                           16,182
                           16,182
                        
                        
                           179
                           0207138F
                           F–22A SQUADRONS
                           768,561
                           730,161
                        
                        
                           
                           
                            Program delay
                           
                           [–38,400]
                        
                        
                           180
                           0207142F
                           F–35 SQUADRONS
                           47,132
                           47,132
                        
                        
                           181
                           0207146F
                           F–15EX
                           56,228
                           56,228
                        
                        
                           182
                           0207161F
                           TACTICAL AIM MISSILES
                           34,932
                           34,932
                        
                        
                           183
                           0207163F
                           ADVANCED MEDIUM RANGE AIR-TO-AIR MISSILE (AMRAAM)
                           53,593
                           53,593
                        
                        
                           184
                           0207227F
                           COMBAT RESCUE—PARARESCUE
                           743
                           743
                        
                        
                           185
                           0207238F
                           E–11A
                           64,127
                           55,332
                        
                        
                           
                           
                            E–11A—Slow Expenditure
                           
                           [–8,795]
                        
                        
                           186
                           0207247F
                           AF TENCAP
                           50,263
                           50,263
                        
                        
                           187
                           0207249F
                           PRECISION ATTACK SYSTEMS PROCUREMENT
                           12,723
                           12,723
                        
                        
                           188
                           0207253F
                           COMPASS CALL
                           132,475
                           132,475
                        
                        
                           189
                           0207268F
                           AIRCRAFT ENGINE COMPONENT IMPROVEMENT PROGRAM
                           68,743
                           68,743
                        
                        
                           190
                           0207325F
                           JOINT AIR-TO-SURFACE STANDOFF MISSILE (JASSM)
                           183,532
                           183,532
                        
                        
                           191
                           0207327F
                           SMALL DIAMETER BOMB (SDB)
                           29,910
                           29,910
                        
                        
                           192
                           0207410F
                           AIR &amp;amp; SPACE OPERATIONS CENTER (AOC)
                           71,442
                           64,302
                        
                        
                           
                           
                            Funding carryover
                           
                           [–7,140]
                        
                        
                           193
                           0207412F
                           CONTROL AND REPORTING CENTER (CRC)
                           18,473
                           18,473
                        
                        
                           195
                           0207418F
                           AFSPECWAR—TACP
                           2,206
                           2,206
                        
                        
                           197
                           0207431F
                           COMBAT AIR INTELLIGENCE SYSTEM ACTIVITIES
                           46,702
                           46,702
                        
                        
                           198
                           0207438F
                           THEATER BATTLE MANAGEMENT (TBM) C4I
                           4,873
                           4,873
                        
                        
                           199
                           0207439F
                           ELECTRONIC WARFARE INTEGRATED REPROGRAMMING (EWIR)
                           17,149
                           17,149
                        
                        
                           200
                           0207444F
                           TACTICAL AIR CONTROL PARTY-MOD
                           12,171
                           12,171
                        
                        
                           201
                           0207452F
                           DCAPES
                           8,431
                           8,431
                        
                        
                           202
                           0207521F
                           AIR FORCE CALIBRATION PROGRAMS
                           2,223
                           2,223
                        
                        
                           203
                           0207573F
                           NATIONAL TECHNICAL NUCLEAR FORENSICS
                           2,060
                           2,060
                        
                        
                           204
                           0207590F
                           SEEK EAGLE
                           34,985
                           34,985
                        
                        
                           207
                           0207697F
                           DISTRIBUTED TRAINING AND EXERCISES
                           4,847
                           4,847
                        
                        
                           208
                           0207701F
                           FULL COMBAT MISSION TRAINING
                           7,048
                           7,048
                        
                        
                           209
                           0208006F
                           MISSION PLANNING SYSTEMS
                           92,566
                           92,566
                        
                        
                           210
                           0208007F
                           TACTICAL DECEPTION
                           539
                           539
                        
                        
                           212
                           0208087F
                           DISTRIBUTED CYBER WARFARE OPERATIONS
                           29,996
                           29,996
                        
                        
                           213
                           0208088F
                           AF DEFENSIVE CYBERSPACE OPERATIONS
                           113,218
                           113,218
                        
                        
                           219
                           0208288F
                           INTEL DATA APPLICATIONS
                           988
                           988
                        
                        
                           220
                           0301025F
                           GEOBASE
                           1,002
                           1,002
                        
                        
                           222
                           0301113F
                           CYBER SECURITY INTELLIGENCE SUPPORT
                           18,141
                           18,141
                        
                        
                           228
                           0301377F
                           COUNTERING ADVANCED CONVENTIONAL WEAPONS (CACW)
                           1,668
                           1,668
                        
                        
                           230
                           0301401F
                           AF MULTI-DOMAIN NON-TRADITIONAL ISR BATTLESPACE AWARENESS
                           3,436
                           3,436
                        
                        
                           231
                           0302015F
                           E–4B NATIONAL AIRBORNE OPERATIONS CENTER (NAOC)
                           40,441
                           40,441
                        
                        
                           232
                           0302315F
                           NON-KINETIC COUNTERMEASURE SUPPORT
                           15,180
                           15,180
                        
                        
                           233
                           0303004F
                           EIT CONNECT
                           32,960
                           32,960
                        
                        
                           234
                           0303089F
                           CYBERSPACE AND DODIN OPERATIONS
                           9,776
                           9,776
                        
                        
                           235
                           0303131F
                           MINIMUM ESSENTIAL EMERGENCY COMMUNICATIONS NETWORK (MEECN)
                           25,500
                           25,500
                        
                        
                           236
                           0303133F
                           HIGH FREQUENCY RADIO SYSTEMS
                           8,667
                           8,667
                        
                        
                           237
                           0303140F
                           INFORMATION SYSTEMS SECURITY PROGRAM
                           94,424
                           94,424
                        
                        
                           238
                           0303248F
                           ALL DOMAIN COMMON PLATFORM
                           82,927
                           82,927
                        
                        
                           239
                           0303260F
                           JOINT MILITARY DECEPTION INITIATIVE
                           7,324
                           7,324
                        
                        
                           240
                           0304100F
                           STRATEGIC MISSION PLANNING &amp;amp; EXECUTION SYSTEM (SMPES)
                           69,441
                           69,441
                        
                        
                           243
                           0304260F
                           AIRBORNE SIGINT ENTERPRISE
                           85,284
                           85,284
                        
                        
                           244
                           0304310F
                           COMMERCIAL ECONOMIC ANALYSIS
                           4,719
                           14,719
                        
                        
                           
                           
                            AI/ML mental health analytics for suicide prevention and response
                           
                           [10,000]
                        
                        
                           247
                           0305015F
                           C2 AIR OPERATIONS SUITE—C2 INFO SERVICES
                           13,524
                           13,524
                        
                        
                           248
                           0305020F
                           CCMD INTELLIGENCE INFORMATION TECHNOLOGY
                           1,836
                           1,836
                        
                        
                           249
                           0305022F
                           ISR MODERNIZATION &amp;amp; AUTOMATION DVMT (IMAD)
                           22,909
                           22,909
                        
                        
                           250
                           0305099F
                           GLOBAL AIR TRAFFIC MANAGEMENT (GATM)
                           5,151
                           5,151
                        
                        
                           251
                           0305103F
                           CYBER SECURITY INITIATIVE
                           304
                           304
                        
                        
                           252
                           0305111F
                           WEATHER SERVICE
                           31,372
                           31,372
                        
                        
                           253
                           0305114F
                           AIR TRAFFIC CONTROL, APPROACH, AND LANDING SYSTEM (ATCALS)
                           15,143
                           15,143
                        
                        
                           254
                           0305116F
                           AERIAL TARGETS
                           7,685
                           7,685
                        
                        
                           257
                           0305128F
                           SECURITY AND INVESTIGATIVE ACTIVITIES
                           481
                           481
                        
                        
                           258
                           0305146F
                           DEFENSE JOINT COUNTERINTELLIGENCE ACTIVITIES
                           6,387
                           6,387
                        
                        
                           259
                           0305158F
                           TACTICAL TERMINAL
                           1,002
                           1,002
                        
                        
                           260
                           0305179F
                           INTEGRATED BROADCAST SERVICE (IBS)
                           16,006
                           16,006
                        
                        
                           262
                           0305206F
                           AIRBORNE RECONNAISSANCE SYSTEMS
                           84,363
                           84,363
                        
                        
                           263
                           0305207F
                           MANNED RECONNAISSANCE SYSTEMS
                           16,323
                           16,323
                        
                        
                           264
                           0305208F
                           DISTRIBUTED COMMON GROUND/SURFACE SYSTEMS
                           86,476
                           86,476
                        
                        
                           265
                           0305220F
                           RQ–4 UAV
                           9,516
                           9,516
                        
                        
                           266
                           0305221F
                           NETWORK-CENTRIC COLLABORATIVE TARGETING
                           8,952
                           8,952
                        
                        
                           267
                           0305238F
                           NATO AGS
                           865
                           865
                        
                        
                           268
                           0305240F
                           SUPPORT TO DCGS ENTERPRISE
                           30,932
                           30,932
                        
                        
                           269
                           0305600F
                           INTERNATIONAL INTELLIGENCE TECHNOLOGY AND ARCHITECTURES
                           18,670
                           18,670
                        
                        
                           271
                           0305984F
                           PERSONNEL RECOVERY COMMAND &amp;amp; CTRL (PRC2)
                           2,831
                           2,831
                        
                        
                           272
                           0307577F
                           INTELLIGENCE MISSION DATA (IMD)
                           3,658
                           3,658
                        
                        
                           274
                           0401119F
                           C–5 AIRLIFT SQUADRONS (IF)
                           33,003
                           33,003
                        
                        
                           275
                           0401130F
                           C–17 AIRCRAFT (IF)
                           17,395
                           17,395
                        
                        
                           276
                           0401132F
                           C–130J PROGRAM
                           34,423
                           34,423
                        
                        
                           277
                           0401134F
                           LARGE AIRCRAFT IR COUNTERMEASURES (LAIRCM)
                           7,768
                           7,768
                        
                        
                           278
                           0401218F
                           KC–135S
                           31,977
                           31,977
                        
                        
                           279
                           0401318F
                           CV–22
                           26,249
                           26,249
                        
                        
                           280
                           0408011F
                           SPECIAL TACTICS / COMBAT CONTROL
                           9,421
                           9,421
                        
                        
                           282
                           0708610F
                           LOGISTICS INFORMATION TECHNOLOGY (LOGIT)
                           11,895
                           11,895
                        
                        
                           283
                           0801380F
                           AF LVC OPERATIONAL TRAINING (LVC-OT)
                           29,815
                           29,815
                        
                        
                           284
                           0804743F
                           OTHER FLIGHT TRAINING
                           2,319
                           2,319
                        
                        
                           285
                           0901202F
                           JOINT PERSONNEL RECOVERY AGENCY
                           2,320
                           2,320
                        
                        
                           286
                           0901218F
                           CIVILIAN COMPENSATION PROGRAM
                           4,267
                           4,267
                        
                        
                           287
                           0901220F
                           PERSONNEL ADMINISTRATION
                           3,163
                           3,163
                        
                        
                           288
                           0901226F
                           AIR FORCE STUDIES AND ANALYSIS AGENCY
                           18,937
                           17,037
                        
                        
                           
                           
                            Funding carryover
                           
                           [–1,900]
                        
                        
                           289
                           0901538F
                           FINANCIAL MANAGEMENT INFORMATION SYSTEMS DEVELOPMENT
                           5,634
                           5,634
                        
                        
                           290
                           0901554F
                           DEFENSE ENTERPRISE ACNTNG AND MGT SYS (DEAMS)
                           57,689
                           57,689
                        
                        
                           291A
                           9999999999
                           CLASSIFIED PROGRAMS
                           18,038,552
                           18,021,552
                        
                        
                           
                           
                            Program justification review
                           
                           [–17,000]
                        
                        
                           
                           
                           
                               SUBTOTAL OPERATIONAL SYSTEM DEVELOPMENT
                           
                           
                              25,308,906
                           
                           
                              25,988,671
                           
                        
                        
                           
                           
                           
                           
                           
                        
                        
                           
                           
                           
                               TOTAL RESEARCH, DEVELOPMENT, TEST AND EVALUATION, AIR FORCE
                           
                           
                              49,108,771
                           
                           
                              49,206,986
                           
                        
                        
                           
                           
                           
                           
                           
                        
                        
                           
                           
                           
                              RESEARCH, DEVELOPMENT, TEST, AND EVALUATION, SPACE FORCE
                           
                           
                           
                        
                        
                           
                           
                           
                              BASIC RESEARCH
                           
                           
                           
                        
                        
                           001
                           0601102SF
                           DEFENSE RESEARCH SCIENCES
                           21,349
                           21,349
                        
                        
                           002
                           0601103SF
                           UNIVERSITY RESEARCH INITIATIVES
                           14,731
                           14,731
                        
                        
                           
                           
                           
                               SUBTOTAL BASIC RESEARCH
                           
                           
                              36,080
                           
                           
                              36,080
                           
                        
                        
                           
                           
                           
                           
                           
                        
                        
                           
                           
                           
                              APPLIED RESEARCH
                           
                           
                           
                        
                        
                           004
                           1206601SF
                           SPACE TECHNOLOGY
                           244,964
                           234,964
                        
                        
                           
                           
                            Program decrease
                           
                           [–10,000]
                        
                        
                           
                           
                           
                               SUBTOTAL APPLIED RESEARCH
                           
                           
                              244,964
                           
                           
                              234,964
                           
                        
                        
                           
                           
                           
                           
                           
                        
                        
                           
                           
                           
                              ADVANCED TECHNOLOGY DEVELOPMENT
                           
                           
                           
                        
                        
                           005
                           1206310SF
                           SPACE SCIENCE AND TECHNOLOGY RESEARCH AND DEVELOPMENT
                           425,166
                           435,166
                        
                        
                           
                           
                            Defense in Depth as Mission Assurance for Spacecraft Multilevel Security (DiDaMAS-MLS)
                           
                           [10,000]
                        
                        
                           006
                           1206616SF
                           SPACE ADVANCED TECHNOLOGY DEVELOPMENT/DEMO
                           138,270
                           148,270
                        
                        
                           
                           
                            Space Assets for Rapid Materiel Delivery in Contested Logistics
                           
                           [10,000]
                        
                        
                           
                           
                           
                               SUBTOTAL ADVANCED TECHNOLOGY DEVELOPMENT
                           
                           
                              563,436
                           
                           
                              583,436
                           
                        
                        
                           
                           
                           
                           
                           
                        
                        
                           
                           
                           
                              ADVANCED COMPONENT DEVELOPMENT AND PROTOTYPES
                           
                           
                           
                        
                        
                           007
                           0604002SF
                           SPACE FORCE WEATHER SERVICES RESEARCH
                           867
                           867
                        
                        
                           008
                           1203010SF
                           SPACE FORCE IT, DATA ANALYTICS, DIGITAL SOLUTIONS
                           88,610
                           88,610
                        
                        
                           009
                           1203164SF
                           NAVSTAR GLOBAL POSITIONING SYSTEM (USER EQUIPMENT) (SPACE)
                           300,025
                           300,025
                        
                        
                           010
                           1203622SF
                           SPACE WARFIGHTING ANALYSIS
                           121,409
                           121,409
                        
                        
                           011
                           1203710SF
                           EO/IR WEATHER SYSTEMS
                           76,391
                           76,391
                        
                        
                           012
                           1203955SF
                           SPACE ACCESS, MOBILITY &amp;amp; LOGISTICS (SAML)
                           20,000
                           20,000
                        
                        
                           013
                           1206410SF
                           SPACE TECHNOLOGY DEVELOPMENT AND PROTOTYPING
                           1,701,685
                           1,701,685
                        
                        
                           015
                           1206427SF
                           SPACE SYSTEMS PROTOTYPE TRANSITIONS (SSPT)
                           133,739
                           133,739
                        
                        
                           016
                           1206438SF
                           SPACE CONTROL TECHNOLOGY
                           62,195
                           62,195
                        
                        
                           017
                           1206458SF
                           TECH TRANSITION (SPACE)
                           228,547
                           230,547
                        
                        
                           
                           
                            Hybrid Space Architecture Pilot
                           
                           [2,000]
                        
                        
                           018
                           1206730SF
                           SPACE SECURITY AND DEFENSE PROGRAM
                           53,199
                           53,199
                        
                        
                           019
                           1206760SF
                           PROTECTED TACTICAL ENTERPRISE SERVICE (PTES)
                           79,709
                           79,709
                        
                        
                           020
                           1206761SF
                           PROTECTED TACTICAL SERVICE (PTS)
                           596,996
                           596,996
                        
                        
                           021
                           1206855SF
                           EVOLVED STRATEGIC SATCOM (ESS)
                           1,046,161
                           1,031,161
                        
                        
                           
                           
                            Insufficient justification
                           
                           [–15,000]
                        
                        
                           022
                           1206857SF
                           SPACE RAPID CAPABILITIES OFFICE
                           11,361
                           11,361
                        
                        
                           023
                           1206862SF
                           TACTICALLY RESPONSIVE SPACE
                           30,052
                           30,052
                        
                        
                           
                           
                           
                               SUBTOTAL ADVANCED COMPONENT DEVELOPMENT AND PROTOTYPES
                           
                           
                              4,550,946
                           
                           
                              4,537,946
                           
                        
                        
                           
                           
                           
                           
                           
                        
                        
                           
                           
                           
                              SYSTEM DEVELOPMENT AND DEMONSTRATION
                           
                           
                           
                        
                        
                           024
                           1203269SF
                           GPS III FOLLOW-ON (GPS IIIF)
                           244,752
                           244,752
                        
                        
                           026
                           1206421SF
                           COUNTERSPACE SYSTEMS
                           37,078
                           37,078
                        
                        
                           027
                           1206422SF
                           WEATHER SYSTEM FOLLOW-ON
                           49,207
                           49,207
                        
                        
                           028
                           1206425SF
                           SPACE SITUATION AWARENESS SYSTEMS
                           483,605
                           483,605
                        
                        
                           029
                           1206431SF
                           ADVANCED EHF MILSATCOM (SPACE)
                           1,020
                           1,020
                        
                        
                           032
                           1206440SF
                           NEXT-GEN OPIR—GROUND
                           558,013
                           558,013
                        
                        
                           033
                           1206442SF
                           NEXT GENERATION OPIR
                           202,951
                           202,951
                        
                        
                           034
                           1206443SF
                           NEXT-GEN OPIR—GEO
                           510,806
                           510,806
                        
                        
                           035
                           1206444SF
                           NEXT-GEN OPIR—POLAR
                           828,878
                           828,878
                        
                        
                           036
                           1206445SF
                           COMMERCIAL SATCOM (COMSATCOM) INTEGRATION
                           134,487
                           134,487
                        
                        
                           037
                           1206446SF
                           RESILIENT MISSILE WARNING MISSILE TRACKING—LOW EARTH ORBIT (LEO)
                           1,730,821
                           1,730,821
                        
                        
                           038
                           1206447SF
                           RESILIENT MISSILE WARNING MISSILE TRACKING—MEDIUM EARTH ORBIT (MEO)
                           846,349
                           846,349
                        
                        
                           040
                           1206853SF
                           NATIONAL SECURITY SPACE LAUNCH PROGRAM (SPACE)—EMD
                           23,392
                           23,392
                        
                        
                           
                           
                           
                               SUBTOTAL SYSTEM DEVELOPMENT AND DEMONSTRATION
                           
                           
                              5,651,359
                           
                           
                              5,651,359
                           
                        
                        
                           
                           
                           
                           
                           
                        
                        
                           
                           
                           
                              MANAGEMENT SUPPORT
                           
                           
                           
                        
                        
                           046
                           1206392SF
                           ACQ WORKFORCE—SPACE &amp;amp; MISSILE SYSTEMS
                           274,424
                           274,424
                        
                        
                           047
                           1206398SF
                           SPACE &amp;amp; MISSILE SYSTEMS CENTER—MHA
                           12,867
                           12,867
                        
                        
                           049
                           1206759SF
                           MAJOR T&amp;amp;E INVESTMENT—SPACE
                           229,665
                           229,665
                        
                        
                           050
                           1206860SF
                           ROCKET SYSTEMS LAUNCH PROGRAM (SPACE)
                           20,134
                           20,134
                        
                        
                           052
                           1206864SF
                           SPACE TEST PROGRAM (STP)
                           30,279
                           30,279
                        
                        
                           
                           
                           
                               SUBTOTAL MANAGEMENT SUPPORT
                           
                           
                              567,369
                           
                           
                              567,369
                           
                        
                        
                           
                           
                           
                           
                           
                        
                        
                           
                           
                           
                              OPERATIONAL SYSTEM DEVELOPMENT
                           
                           
                           
                        
                        
                           055
                           1203001SF
                           FAMILY OF ADVANCED BLOS TERMINALS (FAB-T)
                           2,607
                           2,607
                        
                        
                           056
                           1203040SF
                           DCO-SPACE
                           104,088
                           104,088
                        
                        
                           057
                           1203109SF
                           NARROWBAND SATELLITE COMMUNICATIONS
                           228,435
                           228,435
                        
                        
                           058
                           1203110SF
                           SATELLITE CONTROL NETWORK (SPACE)
                           98,572
                           98,572
                        
                        
                           059
                           1203154SF
                           LONG RANGE KILL CHAINS
                           244,121
                           244,121
                        
                        
                           061
                           1203173SF
                           SPACE AND MISSILE TEST AND EVALUATION CENTER
                           20,844
                           20,844
                        
                        
                           062
                           1203174SF
                           SPACE INNOVATION, INTEGRATION AND RAPID TECHNOLOGY DEVELOPMENT
                           48,900
                           48,900
                        
                        
                           063
                           1203182SF
                           SPACELIFT RANGE SYSTEM (SPACE)
                           55,906
                           55,906
                        
                        
                           065
                           1203330SF
                           SPACE SUPERIORITY ISR
                           28,227
                           28,227
                        
                        
                           067
                           1203873SF
                           BALLISTIC MISSILE DEFENSE RADARS
                           12,024
                           12,024
                        
                        
                           068
                           1203906SF
                           NCMC—TW/AA SYSTEM
                           25,656
                           25,656
                        
                        
                           069
                           1203913SF
                           NUDET DETECTION SYSTEM (SPACE)
                           83,426
                           83,426
                        
                        
                           070
                           1203940SF
                           SPACE SITUATION AWARENESS OPERATIONS
                           120,160
                           130,160
                        
                        
                           
                           
                            Unified Data Library
                           
                           [10,000]
                        
                        
                           071
                           1206423SF
                           GLOBAL POSITIONING SYSTEM III—OPERATIONAL CONTROL SEGMENT
                           217,224
                           217,224
                        
                        
                           075
                           1206770SF
                           ENTERPRISE GROUND SERVICES
                           111,284
                           111,284
                        
                        
                           076
                           1208053SF
                           JOINT TACTICAL GROUND SYSTEM
                           6,937
                           6,937
                        
                        
                           076A
                           9999999999
                           CLASSIFIED PROGRAMS
                           5,520,323
                           5,380,523
                        
                        
                           
                           
                            Program reduction
                           
                           [–139,800]
                        
                        
                           
                           
                           
                               SUBTOTAL OPERATIONAL SYSTEM DEVELOPMENT
                           
                           
                              6,928,734
                           
                           
                              6,798,934
                           
                        
                        
                           
                           
                           
                           
                           
                        
                        
                           
                           
                           
                              SOFTWARE AND DIGITAL TECHNOLOGY PILOT PROGRAMS
                           
                           
                           
                        
                        
                           077
                           1208248SF
                           SPACE DOMAIN AWARENESS/PLANNING/TASKING SW
                           157,265
                           157,265
                        
                        
                           
                           
                           
                               SUBTOTAL SOFTWARE AND DIGITAL TECHNOLOGY PILOT PROGRAMS
                           
                           
                              157,265
                           
                           
                              157,265
                           
                        
                        
                           
                           
                           
                           
                           
                        
                        
                           
                           
                           
                               TOTAL RESEARCH, DEVELOPMENT, TEST, AND EVALUATION, SPACE FORCE
                           
                           
                              18,700,153
                           
                           
                              18,567,353
                           
                        
                        
                           
                           
                           
                           
                           
                        
                        
                           
                           
                           
                              RESEARCH, DEVELOPMENT, TEST AND EVALUATION, DEFENSE-WIDE
                           
                           
                           
                        
                        
                           
                           
                           
                              BASIC RESEARCH
                           
                           
                           
                        
                        
                           001
                           0601000BR
                           DTRA BASIC RESEARCH
                           15,311
                           11,311
                        
                        
                           
                           
                            Program decrease
                           
                           [–4,000]
                        
                        
                           002
                           0601101E
                           DEFENSE RESEARCH SCIENCES
                           303,830
                           303,830
                        
                        
                           003
                           0601108D8Z
                           HIGH ENERGY LASER RESEARCH INITIATIVES
                           16,518
                           16,518
                        
                        
                           004
                           0601110D8Z
                           BASIC RESEARCH INITIATIVES
                           77,132
                           62,132
                        
                        
                           
                           
                            Program decrease
                           
                           [–15,000]
                        
                        
                           005
                           0601117E
                           BASIC OPERATIONAL MEDICAL RESEARCH SCIENCE
                           99,048
                           111,048
                        
                        
                           
                           
                            Program increase
                           
                           [10,000]
                        
                        
                           
                           
                            Ultra-rare pediatric brain and spinal cord tumors
                           
                           [2,000]
                        
                        
                           006
                           0601120D8Z
                           NATIONAL DEFENSE EDUCATION PROGRAM
                           169,986
                           169,986
                        
                        
                           007
                           0601228D8Z
                           HISTORICALLY BLACK COLLEGES AND UNIVERSITIES/MINORITY INSTITUTIONS
                           99,792
                           124,792
                        
                        
                           
                           
                            Program increase
                           
                           [25,000]
                        
                        
                           008
                           0601384BP
                           CHEMICAL AND BIOLOGICAL DEFENSE PROGRAM
                           37,812
                           37,812
                        
                        
                           
                           
                           
                               SUBTOTAL BASIC RESEARCH
                           
                           
                              819,429
                           
                           
                              837,429
                           
                        
                        
                           
                           
                           
                           
                           
                        
                        
                           
                           
                           
                              APPLIED RESEARCH
                           
                           
                           
                        
                        
                           009
                           0602000D8Z
                           JOINT MUNITIONS TECHNOLOGY
                           19,373
                           19,373
                        
                        
                           010
                           0602115E
                           BIOMEDICAL TECHNOLOGY
                           169,198
                           169,198
                        
                        
                           011
                           0602128D8Z
                           PROMOTION AND PROTECTION STRATEGIES
                           3,191
                           3,191
                        
                        
                           012
                           0602230D8Z
                           DEFENSE TECHNOLOGY INNOVATION
                           38,515
                           38,515
                        
                        
                           013
                           0602234D8Z
                           LINCOLN LABORATORY RESEARCH PROGRAM
                           47,528
                           47,528
                        
                        
                           014
                           0602251D8Z
                           APPLIED RESEARCH FOR THE ADVANCEMENT OF S&amp;amp;T PRIORITIES
                           51,555
                           51,555
                        
                        
                           015
                           0602303E
                           INFORMATION &amp;amp; COMMUNICATIONS TECHNOLOGY
                           397,266
                           407,266
                        
                        
                           
                           
                            Unexplored Systems for Utility-Scale Quantum Computing
                           
                           [10,000]
                        
                        
                           017
                           0602384BP
                           CHEMICAL AND BIOLOGICAL DEFENSE PROGRAM
                           224,777
                           220,777
                        
                        
                           
                           
                            Program decrease
                           
                           [–4,000]
                        
                        
                           018
                           0602668D8Z
                           CYBER SECURITY RESEARCH
                           17,652
                           15,152
                        
                        
                           
                           
                            Program decrease
                           
                           [–2,500]
                        
                        
                           020
                           0602675D8Z
                           SOCIAL SCIENCES FOR ENVIRONMENTAL SECURITY
                           5,456
                           5,456
                        
                        
                           021
                           0602702E
                           TACTICAL TECHNOLOGY
                           117,935
                           117,935
                        
                        
                           022
                           0602715E
                           MATERIALS AND BIOLOGICAL TECHNOLOGY
                           337,772
                           337,772
                        
                        
                           023
                           0602716E
                           ELECTRONICS TECHNOLOGY
                           573,265
                           573,265
                        
                        
                           024
                           0602718BR
                           COUNTER WEAPONS OF MASS DESTRUCTION APPLIED RESEARCH
                           174,955
                           164,955
                        
                        
                           
                           
                            Program decrease
                           
                           [–10,000]
                        
                        
                           025
                           0602751D8Z
                           SOFTWARE ENGINEERING INSTITUTE (SEI) APPLIED RESEARCH
                           11,310
                           11,310
                        
                        
                           026
                           0602890D8Z
                           HIGH ENERGY LASER RESEARCH
                           48,640
                           48,640
                        
                        
                           027
                           0602891D8Z
                           FSRM MODELLING
                           1,897
                           1,897
                        
                        
                           028
                           1160401BB
                           SOF TECHNOLOGY DEVELOPMENT
                           50,183
                           50,183
                        
                        
                           
                           
                           
                               SUBTOTAL APPLIED RESEARCH
                           
                           
                              2,290,468
                           
                           
                              2,283,968
                           
                        
                        
                           
                           
                           
                           
                           
                        
                        
                           
                           
                           
                              ADVANCED TECHNOLOGY DEVELOPMENT
                           
                           
                           
                        
                        
                           029
                           0603000D8Z
                           JOINT MUNITIONS ADVANCED TECHNOLOGY
                           41,072
                           41,072
                        
                        
                           030
                           0603021D8Z
                           NATIONAL SECURITY INNOVATION CAPITAL
                           14,983
                           14,983
                        
                        
                           031
                           0603121D8Z
                           SO/LIC ADVANCED DEVELOPMENT
                           5,176
                           5,176
                        
                        
                           032
                           0603122D8Z
                           COMBATING TERRORISM TECHNOLOGY SUPPORT
                           76,639
                           154,139
                        
                        
                           
                           
                            U.S.-Israel Anti-Tunneling Cooperation
                           
                           [30,000]
                        
                        
                           
                           
                            U.S.-Israel Joint R&amp;amp;D on Emerging Technologies
                           
                           [47,500]
                        
                        
                           033
                           0603133D8Z
                           FOREIGN COMPARATIVE TESTING
                           30,007
                           30,007
                        
                        
                           034
                           0603142D8Z
                           MISSION ENGINEERING &amp;amp; INTEGRATION (ME&amp;amp;I)
                           110,628
                           110,628
                        
                        
                           035
                           0603160BR
                           COUNTER WEAPONS OF MASS DESTRUCTION ADVANCED TECHNOLOGY DEVELOPMENT
                           418,044
                           368,044
                        
                        
                           
                           
                            Program decrease
                           
                           [–50,000]
                        
                        
                           037
                           0603176C
                           ADVANCED CONCEPTS AND PERFORMANCE ASSESSMENT
                           17,920
                           27,920
                        
                        
                           
                           
                            Hypersonic Kill Vehicle Hardware-In-The-Loop
                           
                           [3,000]
                        
                        
                           
                           
                            Kinetic, Non-Kinetic Resource Optimization
                           
                           [7,000]
                        
                        
                           038
                           0603180C
                           ADVANCED RESEARCH
                           19,354
                           19,354
                        
                        
                           039
                           0603183D8Z
                           JOINT HYPERSONIC TECHNOLOGY DEVELOPMENT &amp;amp;TRANSITION
                           51,941
                           51,941
                        
                        
                           040
                           0603225D8Z
                           JOINT DOD-DOE MUNITIONS TECHNOLOGY DEVELOPMENT
                           19,826
                           19,826
                        
                        
                           042
                           0603286E
                           ADVANCED AEROSPACE SYSTEMS
                           269,700
                           281,700
                        
                        
                           
                           
                            Longshot
                           
                           [12,000]
                        
                        
                           043
                           0603287E
                           SPACE PROGRAMS AND TECHNOLOGY
                           225,457
                           225,457
                        
                        
                           044
                           0603288D8Z
                           ANALYTIC ASSESSMENTS
                           30,594
                           28,594
                        
                        
                           
                           
                            Program decrease
                           
                           [–2,000]
                        
                        
                           045
                           0603289D8Z
                           ADVANCED INNOVATIVE ANALYSIS AND CONCEPTS
                           56,390
                           51,390
                        
                        
                           
                           
                            Program decrease
                           
                           [–5,000]
                        
                        
                           046
                           0603330D8Z
                           QUANTUM APPLICATION
                           69,290
                           69,290
                        
                        
                           047
                           0603342D8Z
                           DEFENSE INNOVATION UNIT (DIU)
                           109,614
                           124,614
                        
                        
                           
                           
                            DIU electric boats
                           
                           [5,000]
                        
                        
                           
                           
                            DIU NAPP
                           
                           [5,000]
                        
                        
                           
                           
                            Hypersonic air breathing rocket demo
                           
                           [5,000]
                        
                        
                           048
                           0603375D8Z
                           TECHNOLOGY INNOVATION
                           74,549
                           74,549
                        
                        
                           049
                           0603379D8Z
                           ADVANCED TECHNICAL INTEGRATION
                           26,053
                           26,053
                        
                        
                           050
                           0603384BP
                           CHEMICAL AND BIOLOGICAL DEFENSE PROGRAM—ADVANCED DEVELOPMENT
                           230,051
                           222,551
                        
                        
                           
                           
                            Program decrease
                           
                           [–7,500]
                        
                        
                           052
                           0603618D8Z
                           JOINT ELECTRONIC ADVANCED TECHNOLOGY
                           20,188
                           20,188
                        
                        
                           053
                           0603662D8Z
                           NETWORKED COMMUNICATIONS CAPABILITIES
                           5,234
                           5,234
                        
                        
                           055
                           0603680D8Z
                           DEFENSE-WIDE MANUFACTURING SCIENCE AND TECHNOLOGY PROGRAM
                           190,557
                           168,057
                        
                        
                           
                           
                            Integrated Silicon-Based Lasers—program increase
                           
                           [2,500]
                        
                        
                           
                           
                            Program decrease
                           
                           [–25,000]
                        
                        
                           056
                           0603680S
                           MANUFACTURING TECHNOLOGY PROGRAM
                           55,366
                           50,640
                        
                        
                           
                           
                            Critical Materials Supply Chain Research
                           
                           [5,274]
                        
                        
                           
                           
                            Program decrease
                           
                           [–10,000]
                        
                        
                           057
                           0603712S
                           GENERIC LOGISTICS R&amp;amp;D TECHNOLOGY DEMONSTRATIONS
                           18,543
                           18,543
                        
                        
                           058
                           0603716D8Z
                           STRATEGIC ENVIRONMENTAL RESEARCH PROGRAM
                           58,838
                           54,838
                        
                        
                           
                           
                            Prizes for development of technology for thermal destruction of perfluoroalkyl substances or polyfluoroalkyl substances
                           
                           [1,000]
                        
                        
                           
                           
                            Program decrease
                           
                           [–5,000]
                        
                        
                           059
                           0603720S
                           MICROELECTRONICS TECHNOLOGY DEVELOPMENT AND SUPPORT
                           137,246
                           132,246
                        
                        
                           
                           
                            Program decrease
                           
                           [–5,000]
                        
                        
                           060
                           0603727D8Z
                           JOINT WARFIGHTING PROGRAM
                           2,684
                           2,684
                        
                        
                           061
                           0603739E
                           ADVANCED ELECTRONICS TECHNOLOGIES
                           257,844
                           257,844
                        
                        
                           062
                           0603760E
                           COMMAND, CONTROL AND COMMUNICATIONS SYSTEMS
                           336,542
                           336,542
                        
                        
                           063
                           0603766E
                           NETWORK-CENTRIC WARFARE TECHNOLOGY
                           886,511
                           886,511
                        
                        
                           064
                           0603767E
                           SENSOR TECHNOLOGY
                           267,961
                           267,961
                        
                        
                           066
                           0603781D8Z
                           SOFTWARE ENGINEERING INSTITUTE
                           16,982
                           16,982
                        
                        
                           067
                           0603838D8Z
                           DEFENSE INNOVATION ACCELERATION (DIA)
                           165,798
                           155,298
                        
                        
                           
                           
                            Program decrease
                           
                           [–17,500]
                        
                        
                           
                           
                            Support for suicide prevention and warfighter resiliency training
                           
                           [7,000]
                        
                        
                           068
                           0603924D8Z
                           HIGH ENERGY LASER ADVANCED TECHNOLOGY PROGRAM
                           110,367
                           120,367
                        
                        
                           
                           
                            MACH-TB
                           
                           [10,000]
                        
                        
                           069
                           0603941D8Z
                           TEST &amp;amp; EVALUATION SCIENCE &amp;amp; TECHNOLOGY
                           268,722
                           268,722
                        
                        
                           070
                           0603945D8Z
                           INTERNATIONAL INNOVATION INITIATIVES
                           125,680
                           105,680
                        
                        
                           
                           
                            Program decrease
                           
                           [–20,000]
                        
                        
                           071
                           0603950D8Z
                           NATIONAL SECURITY INNOVATION NETWORK
                           21,322
                           21,322
                        
                        
                           072
                           0604055D8Z
                           OPERATIONAL ENERGY CAPABILITY IMPROVEMENT
                           167,279
                           167,279
                        
                        
                           074
                           1160402BB
                           SOF ADVANCED TECHNOLOGY DEVELOPMENT
                           197,767
                           131,617
                        
                        
                           
                           
                            HSVTOL
                           
                           [–72,150]
                        
                        
                           
                           
                            Next Generation ISR SOF Enhancement
                           
                           [6,000]
                        
                        
                           
                           
                           
                               SUBTOTAL ADVANCED TECHNOLOGY DEVELOPMENT
                           
                           
                              5,208,719
                           
                           
                              5,135,843
                           
                        
                        
                           
                           
                           
                           
                           
                        
                        
                           
                           
                           
                              ADVANCED COMPONENT DEVELOPMENT AND PROTOTYPES
                           
                           
                           
                        
                        
                           075
                           0603161D8Z
                           NUCLEAR AND CONVENTIONAL PHYSICAL SECURITY EQUIPMENT RDT&amp;amp;E ADC&amp;amp;P
                           63,162
                           63,162
                        
                        
                           076
                           0603600D8Z
                           WALKOFF
                           149,704
                           149,704
                        
                        
                           077
                           0603851D8Z
                           ENVIRONMENTAL SECURITY TECHNICAL CERTIFICATION PROGRAM
                           136,513
                           141,513
                        
                        
                           
                           
                            Program increase
                           
                           [5,000]
                        
                        
                           078
                           0603881C
                           BALLISTIC MISSILE DEFENSE TERMINAL DEFENSE SEGMENT
                           367,279
                           307,379
                        
                        
                           
                           
                            Insufficient justification
                           
                           [–59,900]
                        
                        
                           079
                           0603882C
                           BALLISTIC MISSILE DEFENSE MIDCOURSE DEFENSE SEGMENT
                           768,227
                           768,227
                        
                        
                           080
                           0603884BP
                           CHEMICAL AND BIOLOGICAL DEFENSE PROGRAM—DEM/VAL
                           304,374
                           304,374
                        
                        
                           081
                           0603884C
                           BALLISTIC MISSILE DEFENSE SENSORS
                           209,002
                           209,002
                        
                        
                           082
                           0603890C
                           BMD ENABLING PROGRAMS
                           609,406
                           609,406
                        
                        
                           083
                           0603891C
                           SPECIAL PROGRAMS—MDA
                           495,570
                           495,570
                        
                        
                           084
                           0603892C
                           AEGIS BMD
                           649,255
                           738,455
                        
                        
                           
                           
                            Guam Defense System—INDOPACOM UPL
                           
                           [89,200]
                        
                        
                           085
                           0603896C
                           BALLISTIC MISSILE DEFENSE COMMAND AND CONTROL, BATTLE MANAGEMENT AND COMMUNICATIONS (C2BMC)
                           569,662
                           569,662
                        
                        
                           086
                           0603898C
                           BALLISTIC MISSILE DEFENSE JOINT WARFIGHTER SUPPORT
                           47,723
                           47,723
                        
                        
                           087
                           0603904C
                           MISSILE DEFENSE INTEGRATION &amp;amp; OPERATIONS CENTER (MDIOC)
                           54,525
                           54,525
                        
                        
                           088
                           0603906C
                           REGARDING TRENCH
                           27,900
                           27,900
                        
                        
                           089
                           0603907C
                           SEA BASED X-BAND RADAR (SBX)
                           197,339
                           197,339
                        
                        
                           090
                           0603913C
                           ISRAELI COOPERATIVE PROGRAMS
                           300,000
                           300,000
                        
                        
                           091
                           0603914C
                           BALLISTIC MISSILE DEFENSE TEST
                           367,491
                           367,491
                        
                        
                           092
                           0603915C
                           BALLISTIC MISSILE DEFENSE TARGETS
                           604,708
                           622,108
                        
                        
                           
                           
                            Advanced Target Front End Configuration 3
                           
                           [3,000]
                        
                        
                           
                           
                            Guam Defense System—INDOPACOM UPL
                           
                           [14,400]
                        
                        
                           093
                           0603923D8Z
                           COALITION WARFARE
                           9,890
                           9,890
                        
                        
                           094
                           0604011D8Z
                           NEXT GENERATION INFORMATION COMMUNICATIONS TECHNOLOGY (5G)
                           139,427
                           139,427
                        
                        
                           095
                           0604016D8Z
                           DEPARTMENT OF DEFENSE CORROSION PROGRAM
                           2,637
                           8,637
                        
                        
                           
                           
                            Department of Defense Corrosion Policy and Oversight Office
                           
                           [6,000]
                        
                        
                           096
                           0604102C
                           GUAM DEFENSE DEVELOPMENT
                           415,794
                           492,294
                        
                        
                           
                           
                            Guam Defense System—INDOPACOM UPL
                           
                           [76,500]
                        
                        
                           099
                           0604125D8Z
                           ADVANCED MANUFACTURING COMPONENTS AND PROTOTYPES
                           16,776
                           16,776
                        
                        
                           
                           
                            Pele
                           
                           [3,000]
                        
                        
                           
                           
                            Program decrease
                           
                           [–3,000]
                        
                        
                           100
                           0604181C
                           HYPERSONIC DEFENSE
                           182,283
                           182,283
                        
                        
                           101
                           0604250D8Z
                           ADVANCED INNOVATIVE TECHNOLOGIES
                           994,226
                           1,005,426
                        
                        
                           
                           
                            Pele
                           
                           [16,200]
                        
                        
                           
                           
                            Program decrease
                           
                           [–5,000]
                        
                        
                           102
                           0604294D8Z
                           TRUSTED &amp;amp; ASSURED MICROELECTRONICS
                           593,609
                           573,609
                        
                        
                           
                           
                            Program decrease
                           
                           [–20,000]
                        
                        
                           103
                           0604331D8Z
                           RAPID PROTOTYPING PROGRAM
                           152,126
                           152,126
                        
                        
                           104
                           0604331J
                           RAPID PROTOTYPING PROGRAM
                           7,710
                           7,710
                        
                        
                           106
                           0604400D8Z
                           DEPARTMENT OF DEFENSE (DOD) UNMANNED SYSTEM COMMON DEVELOPMENT
                           2,527
                           2,527
                        
                        
                           107
                           0604551BR
                           CATAPULT INFORMATION SYSTEM
                           7,475
                           7,475
                        
                        
                           108
                           0604555D8Z
                           OPERATIONAL ENERGY CAPABILITY IMPROVEMENT—NON S&amp;amp;T
                           53,705
                           63,205
                        
                        
                           
                           
                            High Energy Laser Power Beaming
                           
                           [7,000]
                        
                        
                           
                           
                            Program increase
                           
                           [2,500]
                        
                        
                           110
                           0604682D8Z
                           WARGAMING AND SUPPORT FOR STRATEGIC ANALYSIS (SSA)
                           3,559
                           3,559
                        
                        
                           111
                           0604775D8Z
                           DEFENSE RAPID INNOVATION PROGRAM
                           10,020
                           10,020
                        
                        
                           112
                           0604790D8Z
                           RAPID DEFENSE EXPERIMENTATION RESERVE (RDER)
                           53,149
                           53,149
                        
                        
                           113
                           0604791D8Z
                           MULTI-DOMAIN JOINT OPERATIONS (MDJO)
                           11,383
                           11,383
                        
                        
                           114
                           0604826J
                           JOINT C5 CAPABILITY DEVELOPMENT, INTEGRATION AND INTEROPERABILITY ASSESSMENTS
                           29,706
                           29,706
                        
                        
                           115
                           0604873C
                           LONG RANGE DISCRIMINATION RADAR (LRDR)
                           100,882
                           100,882
                        
                        
                           116
                           0604874C
                           IMPROVED HOMELAND DEFENSE INTERCEPTORS
                           1,697,121
                           1,697,121
                        
                        
                           117
                           0604876C
                           BALLISTIC MISSILE DEFENSE TERMINAL DEFENSE SEGMENT TEST
                           25,673
                           25,673
                        
                        
                           118
                           0604878C
                           AEGIS BMD TEST
                           135,019
                           136,219
                        
                        
                           
                           
                            Guam Defense System—INDOPACOM UPL
                           
                           [1,200]
                        
                        
                           119
                           0604879C
                           BALLISTIC MISSILE DEFENSE SENSOR TEST
                           96,864
                           96,864
                        
                        
                           120
                           0604880C
                           LAND-BASED SM–3 (LBSM3)
                           22,220
                           22,220
                        
                        
                           121
                           0604887C
                           BALLISTIC MISSILE DEFENSE MIDCOURSE SEGMENT TEST
                           40,006
                           40,006
                        
                        
                           122
                           0604924D8Z
                           HIGH ENERGY LASER ADVANCED COMPONENT DEVELOPMENT &amp;amp; PROTOTYPE
                           2,931
                           2,931
                        
                        
                           123
                           0202057C
                           SAFETY PROGRAM MANAGEMENT
                           1,771
                           1,771
                        
                        
                           124
                           0208059JCY
                           CYBERCOM ACTIVITIES
                           35,700
                           35,700
                        
                        
                           126
                           0208086JCY
                           CYBER TRAINING ENVIRONMENT (CTE)
                           158,345
                           158,345
                        
                        
                           127
                           0300206R
                           ENTERPRISE INFORMATION TECHNOLOGY SYSTEMS
                           2,162
                           2,162
                        
                        
                           128
                           0305103C
                           CYBER SECURITY INITIATIVE
                           1,831
                           1,831
                        
                        
                           129
                           0305245D8Z
                           INTELLIGENCE CAPABILITIES AND INNOVATION INVESTMENTS
                           51,784
                           51,784
                        
                        
                           131
                           0306250JCY
                           CYBER OPERATIONS TECHNOLOGY SUPPORT
                           52,715
                           62,715
                        
                        
                           
                           
                            Program increase
                           
                           [10,000]
                        
                        
                           132
                           0901579D8Z
                           OFFICE OF STRATEGIC CAPITAL (OSC)
                           132,640
                           132,640
                        
                        
                           133
                           1206895C
                           BALLISTIC MISSILE DEFENSE SYSTEM SPACE PROGRAMS
                           119,561
                           119,561
                        
                        
                           
                           
                           
                               SUBTOTAL ADVANCED COMPONENT DEVELOPMENT AND PROTOTYPES
                           
                           
                              11,285,067
                           
                           
                              11,431,167
                           
                        
                        
                           
                           
                           
                           
                           
                        
                        
                           
                           
                           
                              SYSTEM DEVELOPMENT AND DEMONSTRATION
                           
                           
                           
                        
                        
                           134
                           0604123D8Z
                           CHIEF DIGITAL AND ARTIFICIAL INTELLIGENCE OFFICER (CDAO)—DEM/VAL ACTIVITIES
                           371,833
                           356,833
                        
                        
                           
                           
                            Program decrease
                           
                           [–15,000]
                        
                        
                           135
                           0604133D8Z
                           ALPHA–1 DEVELOPMENT ACTIVITIES
                           53,307
                           53,307
                        
                        
                           136
                           0604161D8Z
                           NUCLEAR AND CONVENTIONAL PHYSICAL SECURITY EQUIPMENT RDT&amp;amp;E SDD
                           13,549
                           13,549
                        
                        
                           137
                           0604384BP
                           CHEMICAL AND BIOLOGICAL DEFENSE PROGRAM—EMD
                           270,265
                           270,265
                        
                        
                           138
                           0604771D8Z
                           JOINT TACTICAL INFORMATION DISTRIBUTION SYSTEM (JTIDS)
                           12,893
                           12,893
                        
                        
                           139
                           0605000BR
                           COUNTER WEAPONS OF MASS DESTRUCTION SYSTEMS DEVELOPMENT
                           14,841
                           14,841
                        
                        
                           140
                           0605013BL
                           INFORMATION TECHNOLOGY DEVELOPMENT
                           4,709
                           4,709
                        
                        
                           141
                           0605021SE
                           HOMELAND PERSONNEL SECURITY INITIATIVE
                           9,526
                           9,526
                        
                        
                           142
                           0605022D8Z
                           DEFENSE EXPORTABILITY PROGRAM
                           15,779
                           15,779
                        
                        
                           143
                           0605027D8Z
                           OUSD(C) IT DEVELOPMENT INITIATIVES
                           7,564
                           7,564
                        
                        
                           144
                           0605080S
                           DEFENSE AGENCY INITIATIVES (DAI)—FINANCIAL SYSTEM
                           31,916
                           31,916
                        
                        
                           145
                           0605141BR
                           MISSION ASSURANCE RISK MANAGEMENT SYSTEM (MARMS)
                           9,440
                           9,440
                        
                        
                           146
                           0605210D8Z
                           DEFENSE-WIDE ELECTRONIC PROCUREMENT CAPABILITIES
                           9,485
                           9,485
                        
                        
                           147
                           0605294D8Z
                           TRUSTED &amp;amp; ASSURED MICROELECTRONICS
                           150,436
                           140,436
                        
                        
                           
                           
                            Program decrease
                           
                           [–10,000]
                        
                        
                           148
                           0605649D8Z
                           ACQUISITION INTEGRATION AND INTEROPERABILITY (AI2)
                           12,804
                           12,804
                        
                        
                           149
                           0605755D8Z
                           RADIOLOGICAL AND NUCLEAR DEFENSE MODERNIZATION SYSTEM DEVELOPMENT AND DEMONSTRATION
                           3,575
                           3,575
                        
                        
                           150
                           0605772D8Z
                           NUCLEAR COMMAND, CONTROL, &amp;amp; COMMUNICATIONS
                           3,849
                           3,849
                        
                        
                           151
                           0305304D8Z
                           DOD ENTERPRISE ENERGY INFORMATION MANAGEMENT (EEIM)
                           7,152
                           7,152
                        
                        
                           152
                           0305310D8Z
                           COUNTERPROLIFERATION ADVANCED DEVELOPMENT
                           13,151
                           13,151
                        
                        
                           
                           
                           
                               SUBTOTAL SYSTEM DEVELOPMENT AND DEMONSTRATION
                           
                           
                              1,016,074
                           
                           
                              991,074
                           
                        
                        
                           
                           
                           
                           
                           
                        
                        
                           
                           
                           
                              MANAGEMENT SUPPORT
                           
                           
                           
                        
                        
                           154
                           0603829J
                           JOINT CAPABILITY EXPERIMENTATION
                           12,385
                           12,385
                        
                        
                           155
                           0604122D8Z
                           JADC2 DEVELOPMENT AND EXPERIMENTATION ACTIVITIES
                           222,945
                           222,945
                        
                        
                           156
                           0604774D8Z
                           DEFENSE READINESS REPORTING SYSTEM (DRRS)
                           11,415
                           11,415
                        
                        
                           157
                           0604875D8Z
                           JOINT SYSTEMS ARCHITECTURE DEVELOPMENT
                           9,690
                           9,690
                        
                        
                           158
                           0604940D8Z
                           CENTRAL TEST AND EVALUATION INVESTMENT DEVELOPMENT (CTEIP)
                           782,643
                           782,643
                        
                        
                           159
                           0604942D8Z
                           ASSESSMENTS AND EVALUATIONS
                           1,503
                           1,503
                        
                        
                           160
                           0604944D8Z
                           ASSESSMENTS AND EVALUATIONS, DOD
                           4,253
                           4,253
                        
                        
                           161
                           0605001E
                           MISSION SUPPORT
                           113,007
                           113,007
                        
                        
                           162
                           0605100D8Z
                           JOINT MISSION ENVIRONMENT TEST CAPABILITY (JMETC)
                           209,008
                           209,008
                        
                        
                           163
                           0605126J
                           JOINT INTEGRATED AIR AND MISSILE DEFENSE ORGANIZATION (JIAMDO)
                           72,005
                           72,005
                        
                        
                           165
                           0605142D8Z
                           SYSTEMS ENGINEERING
                           24,669
                           24,669
                        
                        
                           166
                           0605151D8Z
                           STUDIES AND ANALYSIS SUPPORT—OSD
                           6,289
                           6,289
                        
                        
                           167
                           0605161D8Z
                           NUCLEAR MATTERS-PHYSICAL SECURITY
                           19,871
                           19,871
                        
                        
                           168
                           0605170D8Z
                           SUPPORT TO NETWORKS AND INFORMATION INTEGRATION
                           8,580
                           8,580
                        
                        
                           169
                           0605200D8Z
                           GENERAL SUPPORT TO OUSD(INTELLIGENCE AND SECURITY)
                           3,155
                           3,155
                        
                        
                           170
                           0605384BP
                           CHEMICAL AND BIOLOGICAL DEFENSE PROGRAM
                           79,263
                           79,263
                        
                        
                           177
                           0605711D8Z
                           CRITICAL TECHNOLOGY ANALYSIS
                           11,422
                           11,422
                        
                        
                           178
                           0605790D8Z
                           SMALL BUSINESS INNOVATION RESEARCH (SBIR)/ SMALL BUSINESS TECHNOLOGY TRANSFER (STTR) ADMINISTRATION
                           5,346
                           5,346
                        
                        
                           179
                           0605797D8Z
                           MAINTAINING TECHNOLOGY ADVANTAGE
                           31,629
                           26,629
                        
                        
                           
                           
                            Program decrease
                           
                           [–5,000]
                        
                        
                           180
                           0605798D8Z
                           DEFENSE TECHNOLOGY ANALYSIS
                           45,370
                           40,370
                        
                        
                           
                           
                            Program decrease
                           
                           [–5,000]
                        
                        
                           181
                           0605801KA
                           DEFENSE TECHNICAL INFORMATION CENTER (DTIC)
                           66,247
                           66,247
                        
                        
                           182
                           0605803SE
                           R&amp;amp;D IN SUPPORT OF DOD ENLISTMENT, TESTING AND EVALUATION
                           26,935
                           24,935
                        
                        
                           
                           
                            Program decrease
                           
                           [–2,000]
                        
                        
                           183
                           0605804D8Z
                           DEVELOPMENT TEST AND EVALUATION
                           37,233
                           37,233
                        
                        
                           184
                           0605898E
                           MANAGEMENT HQ—R&amp;amp;D
                           14,577
                           14,577
                        
                        
                           185
                           0605998KA
                           MANAGEMENT HQ—DEFENSE TECHNICAL INFORMATION CENTER (DTIC)
                           3,505
                           3,505
                        
                        
                           186
                           0606005D8Z
                           SPECIAL ACTIVITIES
                           18,263
                           18,263
                        
                        
                           187
                           0606100D8Z
                           BUDGET AND PROGRAM ASSESSMENTS
                           14,272
                           14,272
                        
                        
                           188
                           0606114D8Z
                           ANALYSIS WORKING GROUP (AWG) SUPPORT
                           2,814
                           2,814
                        
                        
                           189
                           0606135D8Z
                           CHIEF DIGITAL AND ARTIFICIAL INTELLIGENCE OFFICER (CDAO) ACTIVITIES
                           9,262
                           9,262
                        
                        
                           190
                           0606225D8Z
                           ODNA TECHNOLOGY AND RESOURCE ANALYSIS
                           3,403
                           3,403
                        
                        
                           191
                           0606300D8Z
                           DEFENSE SCIENCE BOARD
                           6,536
                           4,536
                        
                        
                           
                           
                            Program decrease
                           
                           [–2,000]
                        
                        
                           192
                           0606301D8Z
                           AVIATION SAFETY TECHNOLOGIES
                           1,885
                           1,885
                        
                        
                           193
                           0606771D8Z
                           CYBER RESILIENCY AND CYBERSECURITY POLICY
                           40,401
                           40,401
                        
                        
                           194
                           0606774D8Z
                           DEFENSE CIVILIAN TRAINING CORPS
                           27,054
                           27,054
                        
                        
                           195
                           0606775D8Z
                           JOINT PRODUCTION ACCELERATOR CELL (JPAC)
                           5,010
                           5,010
                        
                        
                           196
                           0606853BR
                           MANAGEMENT, TECHNICAL &amp;amp; INTERNATIONAL SUPPORT
                           12,115
                           12,115
                        
                        
                           197
                           0203345D8Z
                           DEFENSE OPERATIONS SECURITY INITIATIVE (DOSI)
                           3,151
                           3,151
                        
                        
                           198
                           0204571J
                           JOINT STAFF ANALYTICAL SUPPORT
                           7,433
                           7,433
                        
                        
                           199
                           0208045K
                           C4I INTEROPERABILITY
                           65,144
                           65,144
                        
                        
                           202
                           0305172K
                           COMBINED ADVANCED APPLICATIONS
                           23,311
                           23,311
                        
                        
                           204
                           0305208K
                           DISTRIBUTED COMMON GROUND/SURFACE SYSTEMS
                           2,988
                           2,988
                        
                        
                           205
                           0305248J
                           JOINT STAFF OFFICE OF THE CHIEF DATA OFFICER (OCDO) ACTIVITIES
                           12,700
                           12,700
                        
                        
                           206
                           0804768J
                           COCOM EXERCISE ENGAGEMENT AND TRAINING TRANSFORMATION (CE2T2)—NON-MHA
                           166,021
                           166,021
                        
                        
                           207
                           0808709SE
                           DEFENSE EQUAL OPPORTUNITY MANAGEMENT INSTITUTE (DEOMI)
                           315
                           315
                        
                        
                           208
                           0808737SE
                           INTEGRATED PRIMARY PREVENTION
                           5,096
                           5,096
                        
                        
                           209
                           0901598C
                           MANAGEMENT HQ—MDA
                           29,033
                           29,033
                        
                        
                           210
                           0903235K
                           JOINT SERVICE PROVIDER (JSP)
                           2,244
                           2,244
                        
                        
                           210A
                           9999999999
                           CLASSIFIED PROGRAMS
                           37,738
                           37,738
                        
                        
                           
                           
                           
                               SUBTOTAL MANAGEMENT SUPPORT
                           
                           
                              2,319,134
                           
                           
                              2,305,134
                           
                        
                        
                           
                           
                           
                           
                           
                        
                        
                           
                           
                           
                              OPERATIONAL SYSTEM DEVELOPMENT
                           
                           
                           
                        
                        
                           211
                           0604011D8Z
                           NEXT GENERATION INFORMATION COMMUNICATIONS TECHNOLOGY (5G)
                           12,424
                           12,424
                        
                        
                           213
                           0607162D8Z
                           CHEMICAL AND BIOLOGICAL WEAPONS ELIMINATION TECHNOLOGY IMPROVEMENT
                           4,254
                           8,254
                        
                        
                           
                           
                            Development of a fully integrated transportable high-pressure waterjet system for the demilitarization of chemical and biological weapons
                           
                           [4,000]
                        
                        
                           214
                           0607210D8Z
                           INDUSTRIAL BASE ANALYSIS AND SUSTAINMENT SUPPORT
                           1,099,243
                           1,109,743
                        
                        
                           
                           
                            Feasibility study by the Assistant Secretary of Defense for Industrial Base Policy on domestic refining of deep sea critical mineral intermediates for national security
                           
                           [2,000]
                        
                        
                           
                           
                            Radar and Avionics Repair and Sustainment Facilities
                           
                           [6,000]
                        
                        
                           
                           
                            Resilient Manufacturing Ecosystem—program increase
                           
                           [2,500]
                        
                        
                           215
                           0607310D8Z
                           COUNTERPROLIFERATION MODERNIZATION
                           11,309
                           11,309
                        
                        
                           216
                           0607327T
                           GLOBAL THEATER SECURITY COOPERATION MANAGEMENT INFORMATION SYSTEMS (G-TSCMIS)
                           8,654
                           8,654
                        
                        
                           217
                           0607384BP
                           CHEMICAL AND BIOLOGICAL DEFENSE (OPERATIONAL SYSTEMS DEVELOPMENT)
                           84,098
                           84,098
                        
                        
                           218
                           0607757D8Z
                           RADIOLOGICAL AND NUCLEAR DEFENSE MODERNIZATION OPERATIONAL SYSTEM DEVELOPMENT
                           1,668
                           1,668
                        
                        
                           219
                           0208085JCY
                           ROBUST INFRASTRUCTURE AND ACCESS
                           154,375
                           154,375
                        
                        
                           220
                           0208097JCY
                           CYBER COMMAND AND CONTROL (CYBER C2)
                           96,932
                           96,932
                        
                        
                           221
                           0208099JCY
                           DATA AND UNIFIED PLATFORM (D&amp;amp;UP)
                           106,053
                           106,053
                        
                        
                           225
                           0302019K
                           DEFENSE INFO INFRASTRUCTURE ENGINEERING AND INTEGRATION
                           12,843
                           12,843
                        
                        
                           226
                           0302609V
                           COUNTERING THREATS AUTOMATED PLATFORM
                           6,057
                           6,057
                        
                        
                           227
                           0303126K
                           LONG-HAUL COMMUNICATIONS—DCS
                           51,214
                           51,214
                        
                        
                           228
                           0303131K
                           MINIMUM ESSENTIAL EMERGENCY COMMUNICATIONS NETWORK (MEECN)
                           4,985
                           4,985
                        
                        
                           230
                           0303140D8Z
                           INFORMATION SYSTEMS SECURITY PROGRAM
                           31,127
                           31,127
                        
                        
                           232
                           0303140K
                           INFORMATION SYSTEMS SECURITY PROGRAM
                           31,414
                           31,414
                        
                        
                           234
                           0303153K
                           DEFENSE SPECTRUM ORGANIZATION
                           24,991
                           24,991
                        
                        
                           235
                           0303171K
                           JOINT PLANNING AND EXECUTION SERVICES
                           3,304
                           3,304
                        
                        
                           236
                           0303228K
                           JOINT REGIONAL SECURITY STACKS (JRSS)
                           2,371
                           2,371
                        
                        
                           242
                           0305104D8Z
                           DEFENSE INDUSTRIAL BASE (DIB) CYBER SECURITY INITIATIVE
                           15,524
                           15,524
                        
                        
                           248
                           0305146V
                           DEFENSE JOINT COUNTERINTELLIGENCE ACTIVITIES
                           1,800
                           1,800
                        
                        
                           249
                           0305172D8Z
                           COMBINED ADVANCED APPLICATIONS
                           42,355
                           42,355
                        
                        
                           252
                           0305186D8Z
                           POLICY R&amp;amp;D PROGRAMS
                           6,220
                           6,220
                        
                        
                           253
                           0305199D8Z
                           NET CENTRICITY
                           20,620
                           20,620
                        
                        
                           255
                           0305208BB
                           DISTRIBUTED COMMON GROUND/SURFACE SYSTEMS
                           5,854
                           5,854
                        
                        
                           263
                           0305387D8Z
                           HOMELAND DEFENSE TECHNOLOGY TRANSFER PROGRAM
                           1,867
                           1,867
                        
                        
                           270
                           0306250JCY
                           CYBER OPERATIONS TECHNOLOGY SUPPORT
                           479,672
                           479,672
                        
                        
                           271
                           0307609V
                           NATIONAL INDUSTRIAL SECURITY SYSTEMS (NISS)
                           38,761
                           38,761
                        
                        
                           275
                           0708012K
                           LOGISTICS SUPPORT ACTIVITIES
                           1,406
                           1,406
                        
                        
                           276
                           0708012S
                           PACIFIC DISASTER CENTERS
                           1,861
                           1,861
                        
                        
                           277
                           0708047S
                           DEFENSE PROPERTY ACCOUNTABILITY SYSTEM
                           3,004
                           3,004
                        
                        
                           279
                           1105219BB
                           MQ–9 UAV
                           34,851
                           34,851
                        
                        
                           281
                           1160403BB
                           AVIATION SYSTEMS
                           263,712
                           257,548
                        
                        
                           
                           
                            AC/MC–130J Mission Systems and MC–130J Modiciations
                           
                           [–1,964]
                        
                        
                           
                           
                            FARA cancellation
                           
                           [–4,200]
                        
                        
                           282
                           1160405BB
                           INTELLIGENCE SYSTEMS DEVELOPMENT
                           81,648
                           78,202
                        
                        
                           
                           
                            MTUAS Slow Expenditure
                           
                           [–3,446]
                        
                        
                           283
                           1160408BB
                           OPERATIONAL ENHANCEMENTS
                           206,307
                           206,307
                        
                        
                           284
                           1160431BB
                           WARRIOR SYSTEMS
                           245,882
                           237,052
                        
                        
                           
                           
                            NGTC
                           
                           [–3,559]
                        
                        
                           
                           
                            SOMPE
                           
                           [–5,271]
                        
                        
                           285
                           1160432BB
                           SPECIAL PROGRAMS
                           539
                           539
                        
                        
                           286
                           1160434BB
                           UNMANNED ISR
                           31,578
                           31,578
                        
                        
                           287
                           1160480BB
                           SOF TACTICAL VEHICLES
                           9,025
                           9,025
                        
                        
                           288
                           1160483BB
                           MARITIME SYSTEMS
                           210,787
                           210,787
                        
                        
                           289
                           1160490BB
                           OPERATIONAL ENHANCEMENTS INTELLIGENCE
                           17,233
                           17,233
                        
                        
                           290A
                           9999999999
                           CLASSIFIED PROGRAMS
                           8,686,427
                           8,658,419
                        
                        
                           
                           
                            Program reduction
                           
                           [–28,008]
                        
                        
                           
                           
                           
                               SUBTOTAL OPERATIONAL SYSTEM DEVELOPMENT
                           
                           
                              12,154,249
                           
                           
                              12,122,301
                           
                        
                        
                           
                           
                           
                           
                           
                        
                        
                           
                           
                           
                              SOFTWARE AND DIGITAL TECHNOLOGY PILOT PROGRAMS
                           
                           
                           
                        
                        
                           292
                           0608648D8Z
                           ACQUISITION VISIBILITY—SOFTWARE PILOT PROGRAM
                           17,907
                           17,907
                        
                        
                           293
                           0303150K
                           GLOBAL COMMAND AND CONTROL SYSTEM
                           31,619
                           31,619
                        
                        
                           294
                           0306250JCY
                           CYBER OPERATIONS TECHNOLOGY SUPPORT
                           85,168
                           85,168
                        
                        
                           
                           
                           
                               SUBTOTAL SOFTWARE AND DIGITAL TECHNOLOGY PILOT PROGRAMS
                           
                           
                              134,694
                           
                           
                              134,694
                           
                        
                        
                           
                           
                           
                           
                           
                        
                        
                           
                           
                           
                               TOTAL RESEARCH, DEVELOPMENT, TEST AND EVALUATION, DEFENSE-WIDE
                           
                           
                              35,227,834
                           
                           
                              35,241,610
                           
                        
                        
                           
                           
                           
                           
                           
                        
                        
                           
                           
                           
                              OPERATIONAL TEST AND EVALUATION, DEFENSE
                           
                           
                           
                        
                        
                           
                           
                           
                              MANAGEMENT SUPPORT
                           
                           
                           
                        
                        
                           001
                           0605118OTE
                           OPERATIONAL TEST AND EVALUATION
                           136,226
                           136,226
                        
                        
                           002
                           0605131OTE
                           LIVE FIRE TEST AND EVALUATION
                           109,561
                           109,561
                        
                        
                           003
                           0605814OTE
                           OPERATIONAL TEST ACTIVITIES AND ANALYSES
                           102,922
                           102,922
                        
                        
                           
                           
                           
                               SUBTOTAL MANAGEMENT SUPPORT
                           
                           
                              348,709
                           
                           
                              348,709
                           
                        
                        
                           
                           
                           
                           
                           
                        
                        
                           
                           
                           
                               TOTAL OPERATIONAL TEST AND EVALUATION, DEFENSE
                           
                           
                              348,709
                           
                           
                              348,709
                           
                        
                        
                           
                           
                           
                           
                           
                        
                        
                           
                           
                           
                               TOTAL RDT&amp;amp;E
                           
                           
                              143,156,590
                           
                           
                              143,553,529
                           
                        
                     
                  
               
            
         
         
            XLIII
            OPERATION AND MAINTENANCE
            
               4301.
               OPERATION AND MAINTENANCE
               
                  
                  
                     
                     
                     
                     
                     
                        
                           
                              SEC. 4301. OPERATION AND MAINTENANCE(In Thousands of Dollars)
                           
                        
                        
                           
                              Line
                           
                           
                              Item
                           
                           
                              FY 2025 Request
                           
                           
                              House Authorized
                           
                        
                     
                     
                        
                           
                           
                              OPERATION AND MAINTENANCE, ARMY
                           
                           
                           
                        
                        
                           
                           
                              OPERATING FORCES
                           
                           
                           
                        
                        
                           010
                           MANEUVER UNITS
                           3,536,069
                           3,709,469
                        
                        
                           
                            INDOPACOM Campaigning
                           
                           [173,400]
                        
                        
                           020
                           MODULAR SUPPORT BRIGADES
                           216,575
                           216,575
                        
                        
                           030
                           ECHELONS ABOVE BRIGADE
                           829,985
                           829,985
                        
                        
                           040
                           THEATER LEVEL ASSETS
                           2,570,467
                           2,570,467
                        
                        
                           050
                           LAND FORCES OPERATIONS SUPPORT
                           1,185,211
                           1,110,211
                        
                        
                           
                            Historical underexecution
                           
                           [–75,000]
                        
                        
                           060
                           AVIATION ASSETS
                           1,955,482
                           1,915,482
                        
                        
                           
                            Historical underexecution
                           
                           [–40,000]
                        
                        
                           070
                           FORCE READINESS OPERATIONS SUPPORT
                           7,150,264
                           7,025,264
                        
                        
                           
                            Historical underexecution
                           
                           [–125,000]
                        
                        
                           080
                           LAND FORCES SYSTEMS READINESS
                           533,892
                           508,892
                        
                        
                           
                            Historical underexecution
                           
                           [–25,000]
                        
                        
                           090
                           LAND FORCES DEPOT MAINTENANCE
                           1,220,407
                           1,220,407
                        
                        
                           100
                           MEDICAL READINESS
                           931,137
                           931,137
                        
                        
                           110
                           BASE OPERATIONS SUPPORT
                           10,482,544
                           10,497,544
                        
                        
                           
                            Program increase
                           
                           [15,000]
                        
                        
                           120
                           FACILITIES SUSTAINMENT, RESTORATION &amp;amp; MODERNIZATION
                           5,231,918
                           5,362,715
                        
                        
                           
                            Quality of Life Initiatives
                           
                           [130,797]
                        
                        
                           130
                           MANAGEMENT AND OPERATIONAL HEADQUARTERS
                           309,674
                           309,674
                        
                        
                           140
                           ADDITIONAL ACTIVITIES
                           303,660
                           303,660
                        
                        
                           150
                           RESET
                           319,873
                           319,873
                        
                        
                           160
                           US AFRICA COMMAND
                           430,724
                           430,724
                        
                        
                           170
                           US EUROPEAN COMMAND
                           326,399
                           326,399
                        
                        
                           180
                           US SOUTHERN COMMAND
                           255,639
                           255,639
                        
                        
                           190
                           US FORCES KOREA
                           71,826
                           71,826
                        
                        
                           200
                           CYBERSPACE ACTIVITIES—CYBERSPACE OPERATIONS
                           422,561
                           422,561
                        
                        
                           210
                           CYBERSPACE ACTIVITIES—CYBERSECURITY
                           597,021
                           602,021
                        
                        
                           
                            Certified remote access
                           
                           [5,000]
                        
                        
                           
                           
                               SUBTOTAL OPERATING FORCES
                           
                           
                              38,881,328
                           
                           
                              38,940,525
                           
                        
                        
                           
                           
                           
                           
                        
                        
                           
                           
                              MOBILIZATION
                           
                           
                           
                        
                        
                           230
                           STRATEGIC MOBILITY
                           567,351
                           567,351
                        
                        
                           240
                           ARMY PREPOSITIONED STOCKS
                           405,747
                           405,747
                        
                        
                           250
                           INDUSTRIAL PREPAREDNESS
                           4,298
                           4,298
                        
                        
                           
                           
                               SUBTOTAL MOBILIZATION
                           
                           
                              977,396
                           
                           
                              977,396
                           
                        
                        
                           
                           
                           
                           
                        
                        
                           
                           
                              TRAINING AND RECRUITING
                           
                           
                           
                        
                        
                           260
                           OFFICER ACQUISITION
                           200,754
                           200,754
                        
                        
                           270
                           RECRUIT TRAINING
                           72,829
                           72,829
                        
                        
                           280
                           ONE STATION UNIT TRAINING
                           92,762
                           92,762
                        
                        
                           290
                           SENIOR RESERVE OFFICERS TRAINING CORPS
                           557,478
                           557,478
                        
                        
                           300
                           SPECIALIZED SKILL TRAINING
                           1,064,113
                           1,064,113
                        
                        
                           310
                           FLIGHT TRAINING
                           1,418,987
                           1,418,987
                        
                        
                           320
                           PROFESSIONAL DEVELOPMENT EDUCATION
                           214,497
                           214,497
                        
                        
                           330
                           TRAINING SUPPORT
                           633,316
                           633,316
                        
                        
                           340
                           RECRUITING AND ADVERTISING
                           785,440
                           785,440
                        
                        
                           350
                           EXAMINING
                           205,072
                           205,072
                        
                        
                           360
                           OFF-DUTY AND VOLUNTARY EDUCATION
                           245,880
                           245,880
                        
                        
                           370
                           CIVILIAN EDUCATION AND TRAINING
                           246,460
                           246,460
                        
                        
                           380
                           JUNIOR RESERVE OFFICER TRAINING CORPS
                           206,700
                           206,700
                        
                        
                           
                           
                               SUBTOTAL TRAINING AND RECRUITING
                           
                           
                              5,944,288
                           
                           
                              5,944,288
                           
                        
                        
                           
                           
                           
                           
                        
                        
                           
                           
                              ADMINISTRATION AND SERVICE-WIDE ACTIVITIES
                           
                           
                           
                        
                        
                           400
                           SERVICEWIDE TRANSPORTATION
                           785,233
                           760,233
                        
                        
                           
                            Historical underexecution
                           
                           [–25,000]
                        
                        
                           410
                           CENTRAL SUPPLY ACTIVITIES
                           926,136
                           926,136
                        
                        
                           420
                           LOGISTIC SUPPORT ACTIVITIES
                           738,637
                           738,637
                        
                        
                           430
                           AMMUNITION MANAGEMENT
                           411,213
                           411,213
                        
                        
                           440
                           ADMINISTRATION
                           515,501
                           501,601
                        
                        
                           
                            Program decrease
                           
                           [–14,900]
                        
                        
                           
                            Servicewomen’s Commemorative Partnerships
                           
                           [1,000]
                        
                        
                           450
                           SERVICEWIDE COMMUNICATIONS
                           2,167,183
                           2,137,183
                        
                        
                           
                            Program decrease
                           
                           [–30,000]
                        
                        
                           460
                           MANPOWER MANAGEMENT
                           375,963
                           375,963
                        
                        
                           470
                           OTHER PERSONNEL SUPPORT
                           943,764
                           893,764
                        
                        
                           
                            Historical underexecution
                           
                           [–50,000]
                        
                        
                           480
                           OTHER SERVICE SUPPORT
                           2,402,405
                           2,352,405
                        
                        
                           
                            Historical underexecution
                           
                           [–50,000]
                        
                        
                           490
                           ARMY CLAIMS ACTIVITIES
                           204,652
                           204,652
                        
                        
                           500
                           REAL ESTATE MANAGEMENT
                           305,340
                           305,340
                        
                        
                           510
                           FINANCIAL MANAGEMENT AND AUDIT READINESS
                           487,742
                           487,742
                        
                        
                           520
                           DEF ACQUISITION WORKFORCE DEVELOPMENT ACCOUNT
                           41,068
                           41,068
                        
                        
                           530
                           INTERNATIONAL MILITARY HEADQUARTERS
                           633,982
                           633,982
                        
                        
                           540
                           MISC. SUPPORT OF OTHER NATIONS
                           34,429
                           34,429
                        
                        
                           590A
                           CLASSIFIED PROGRAMS
                           2,376,219
                           2,376,219
                        
                        
                           
                           
                               SUBTOTAL ADMINISTRATION AND SERVICE-WIDE ACTIVITIES
                           
                           
                              13,349,467
                           
                           
                              13,180,567
                           
                        
                        
                           
                           
                           
                           
                        
                        
                           
                           
                               TOTAL OPERATION AND MAINTENANCE, ARMY
                           
                           
                              59,152,479
                           
                           
                              59,042,776
                           
                        
                        
                           
                           
                           
                           
                        
                        
                           
                           
                              OPERATION AND MAINTENANCE, ARMY RESERVE
                           
                           
                           
                        
                        
                           
                           
                              OPERATING FORCES
                           
                           
                           
                        
                        
                           010
                           MODULAR SUPPORT BRIGADES
                           14,098
                           14,098
                        
                        
                           020
                           ECHELONS ABOVE BRIGADE
                           655,868
                           655,868
                        
                        
                           030
                           THEATER LEVEL ASSETS
                           136,625
                           136,625
                        
                        
                           040
                           LAND FORCES OPERATIONS SUPPORT
                           696,146
                           696,146
                        
                        
                           050
                           AVIATION ASSETS
                           129,581
                           129,581
                        
                        
                           060
                           FORCE READINESS OPERATIONS SUPPORT
                           404,585
                           404,585
                        
                        
                           070
                           LAND FORCES SYSTEMS READINESS
                           42,942
                           42,942
                        
                        
                           080
                           LAND FORCES DEPOT MAINTENANCE
                           49,973
                           49,973
                        
                        
                           090
                           BASE OPERATIONS SUPPORT
                           578,327
                           578,327
                        
                        
                           100
                           FACILITIES SUSTAINMENT, RESTORATION &amp;amp; MODERNIZATION
                           474,365
                           474,365
                        
                        
                           110
                           MANAGEMENT AND OPERATIONAL HEADQUARTERS
                           26,680
                           26,680
                        
                        
                           120
                           CYBERSPACE ACTIVITIES—CYBERSPACE OPERATIONS
                           2,241
                           2,241
                        
                        
                           130
                           CYBERSPACE ACTIVITIES—CYBERSECURITY
                           18,598
                           18,598
                        
                        
                           
                           
                               SUBTOTAL OPERATING FORCES
                           
                           
                              3,230,029
                           
                           
                              3,230,029
                           
                        
                        
                           
                           
                           
                           
                        
                        
                           
                           
                              ADMINISTRATION AND SERVICE-WIDE ACTIVITIES
                           
                           
                           
                        
                        
                           140
                           SERVICEWIDE TRANSPORTATION
                           17,092
                           17,092
                        
                        
                           150
                           ADMINISTRATION
                           19,106
                           19,106
                        
                        
                           160
                           SERVICEWIDE COMMUNICATIONS
                           6,727
                           6,727
                        
                        
                           170
                           MANPOWER MANAGEMENT
                           7,477
                           7,477
                        
                        
                           180
                           OTHER PERSONNEL SUPPORT
                           80,346
                           80,346
                        
                        
                           
                           
                               SUBTOTAL ADMINISTRATION AND SERVICE-WIDE ACTIVITIES
                           
                           
                              130,748
                           
                           
                              130,748
                           
                        
                        
                           
                           
                           
                           
                        
                        
                           
                           
                               TOTAL OPERATION AND MAINTENANCE, ARMY RESERVE
                           
                           
                              3,360,777
                           
                           
                              3,360,777
                           
                        
                        
                           
                           
                           
                           
                        
                        
                           
                           
                              OPERATION AND MAINTENANCE, ARMY NATIONAL GUARD
                           
                           
                           
                        
                        
                           
                           
                              OPERATING FORCES
                           
                           
                           
                        
                        
                           010
                           MANEUVER UNITS
                           886,229
                           891,229
                        
                        
                           
                            Training Exercise Support—Northern Strike
                           
                           [5,000]
                        
                        
                           020
                           MODULAR SUPPORT BRIGADES
                           200,417
                           200,417
                        
                        
                           030
                           ECHELONS ABOVE BRIGADE
                           861,685
                           861,685
                        
                        
                           040
                           THEATER LEVEL ASSETS
                           86,356
                           86,356
                        
                        
                           050
                           LAND FORCES OPERATIONS SUPPORT
                           345,720
                           345,720
                        
                        
                           060
                           AVIATION ASSETS
                           1,150,777
                           1,150,777
                        
                        
                           070
                           FORCE READINESS OPERATIONS SUPPORT
                           737,884
                           737,884
                        
                        
                           080
                           LAND FORCES SYSTEMS READINESS
                           34,262
                           34,262
                        
                        
                           090
                           LAND FORCES DEPOT MAINTENANCE
                           221,401
                           221,401
                        
                        
                           100
                           BASE OPERATIONS SUPPORT
                           1,247,797
                           1,247,797
                        
                        
                           110
                           FACILITIES SUSTAINMENT, RESTORATION &amp;amp; MODERNIZATION
                           1,147,554
                           1,147,554
                        
                        
                           120
                           MANAGEMENT AND OPERATIONAL HEADQUARTERS
                           1,322,621
                           1,322,621
                        
                        
                           130
                           CYBERSPACE ACTIVITIES—CYBERSPACE OPERATIONS
                           5,287
                           5,287
                        
                        
                           140
                           CYBERSPACE ACTIVITIES—CYBERSECURITY
                           20,869
                           20,869
                        
                        
                           
                           
                               SUBTOTAL OPERATING FORCES
                           
                           
                              8,268,859
                           
                           
                              8,273,859
                           
                        
                        
                           
                           
                           
                           
                        
                        
                           
                           
                              ADMINISTRATION AND SERVICE-WIDE ACTIVITIES
                           
                           
                           
                        
                        
                           150
                           SERVICEWIDE TRANSPORTATION
                           7,849
                           7,849
                        
                        
                           160
                           ADMINISTRATION
                           49,304
                           49,304
                        
                        
                           170
                           SERVICEWIDE COMMUNICATIONS
                           18,585
                           18,585
                        
                        
                           190
                           OTHER PERSONNEL SUPPORT
                           297,594
                           297,594
                        
                        
                           200
                           REAL ESTATE MANAGEMENT
                           3,954
                           3,954
                        
                        
                           
                           
                               SUBTOTAL ADMINISTRATION AND SERVICE-WIDE ACTIVITIES
                           
                           
                              377,286
                           
                           
                              377,286
                           
                        
                        
                           
                           
                           
                           
                        
                        
                           
                           
                               TOTAL OPERATION AND MAINTENANCE, ARMY NATIONAL GUARD
                           
                           
                              8,646,145
                           
                           
                              8,651,145
                           
                        
                        
                           
                           
                           
                           
                        
                        
                           
                           
                              COUNTER-ISLAMIC STATE OF IRAQ AND SYRIA TRAIN AND EQUIP
                           
                           
                           
                        
                        
                           
                           
                              COUNTER ISIS TRAIN AND EQUIP FUND (CTEF)
                           
                           
                           
                        
                        
                           010
                           IRAQ
                           380,758
                           380,758
                        
                        
                           020
                           SYRIA
                           147,941
                           147,941
                        
                        
                           
                           
                               SUBTOTAL COUNTER ISIS TRAIN AND EQUIP FUND (CTEF)
                           
                           
                              528,699
                           
                           
                              528,699
                           
                        
                        
                           
                           
                           
                           
                        
                        
                           
                           
                               TOTAL COUNTER-ISLAMIC STATE OF IRAQ AND SYRIA TRAIN AND EQUIP
                           
                           
                              528,699
                           
                           
                              528,699
                           
                        
                        
                           
                           
                           
                           
                        
                        
                           
                           
                              OPERATION AND MAINTENANCE, NAVY
                           
                           
                           
                        
                        
                           
                           
                              OPERATING FORCES
                           
                           
                           
                        
                        
                           010
                           MISSION AND OTHER FLIGHT OPERATIONS
                           6,876,414
                           6,751,414
                        
                        
                           
                            Historical underexecution
                           
                           [–125,000]
                        
                        
                           020
                           FLEET AIR TRAINING
                           2,980,271
                           2,855,271
                        
                        
                           
                            Historical underexecution
                           
                           [–125,000]
                        
                        
                           050
                           AIR SYSTEMS SUPPORT
                           1,444,564
                           1,444,564
                        
                        
                           060
                           AIRCRAFT DEPOT MAINTENANCE
                           1,747,475
                           1,747,475
                        
                        
                           080
                           AVIATION LOGISTICS
                           2,020,926
                           2,005,926
                        
                        
                           
                            Historical underexecution
                           
                           [–15,000]
                        
                        
                           090
                           MISSION AND OTHER SHIP OPERATIONS
                           7,561,665
                           7,571,665
                        
                        
                           
                            Automated Inspections Technology Pilot Program
                           
                           [10,000]
                        
                        
                           100
                           SHIP OPERATIONS SUPPORT &amp;amp; TRAINING
                           1,576,167
                           1,576,167
                        
                        
                           110
                           SHIP DEPOT MAINTENANCE
                           12,121,320
                           12,121,320
                        
                        
                           120
                           SHIP DEPOT OPERATIONS SUPPORT
                           2,722,849
                           2,722,849
                        
                        
                           130
                           COMBAT COMMUNICATIONS AND ELECTRONIC WARFARE
                           1,845,351
                           1,845,351
                        
                        
                           140
                           SPACE SYSTEMS AND SURVEILLANCE
                           429,851
                           429,851
                        
                        
                           150
                           WARFARE TACTICS
                           1,030,531
                           1,030,531
                        
                        
                           160
                           OPERATIONAL METEOROLOGY AND OCEANOGRAPHY
                           462,111
                           462,111
                        
                        
                           170
                           COMBAT SUPPORT FORCES
                           2,430,990
                           2,430,990
                        
                        
                           180
                           EQUIPMENT MAINTENANCE AND DEPOT OPERATIONS SUPPORT
                           49,520
                           49,520
                        
                        
                           200
                           COMBATANT COMMANDERS CORE OPERATIONS
                           93,949
                           93,949
                        
                        
                           210
                           COMBATANT COMMANDERS DIRECT MISSION SUPPORT
                           395,278
                           603,778
                        
                        
                           
                            INDOPACOM Campaigning
                           
                           [53,000]
                        
                        
                           
                            INDOPACOM Mission Network—INDOPACOM UPL
                           
                           [106,500]
                        
                        
                           
                            Joint Training Team—INDOPACOM UPL
                           
                           [49,000]
                        
                        
                           220
                           CYBERSPACE ACTIVITIES
                           577,882
                           562,882
                        
                        
                           
                            Program decrease
                           
                           [–15,000]
                        
                        
                           230
                           FLEET BALLISTIC MISSILE
                           1,866,966
                           1,866,966
                        
                        
                           240
                           WEAPONS MAINTENANCE
                           1,596,682
                           1,596,682
                        
                        
                           250
                           OTHER WEAPON SYSTEMS SUPPORT
                           785,511
                           770,511
                        
                        
                           
                            Historical underexecution
                           
                           [–15,000]
                        
                        
                           260
                           ENTERPRISE INFORMATION
                           1,824,127
                           1,809,127
                        
                        
                           
                            Program decrease
                           
                           [–15,000]
                        
                        
                           270
                           SUSTAINMENT, RESTORATION AND MODERNIZATION
                           4,654,449
                           4,821,949
                        
                        
                           
                            Department of the Navy Unfunded Priorities
                           
                           [50,000]
                        
                        
                           
                            Quality of Life Initiatives
                           
                           [117,500]
                        
                        
                           280
                           BASE OPERATING SUPPORT
                           6,324,454
                           6,333,454
                        
                        
                           
                            Program increase
                           
                           [9,000]
                        
                        
                           
                           
                               SUBTOTAL OPERATING FORCES
                           
                           
                              63,419,303
                           
                           
                              63,504,303
                           
                        
                        
                           
                           
                           
                           
                        
                        
                           
                           
                              MOBILIZATION
                           
                           
                           
                        
                        
                           290
                           SHIP PREPOSITIONING AND SURGE
                           463,722
                           463,722
                        
                        
                           300
                           READY RESERVE FORCE
                           780,558
                           780,558
                        
                        
                           310
                           SHIP ACTIVATIONS/INACTIVATIONS
                           1,030,030
                           1,030,030
                        
                        
                           320
                           EXPEDITIONARY HEALTH SERVICES SYSTEMS
                           173,200
                           173,200
                        
                        
                           330
                           COAST GUARD SUPPORT
                           21,800
                           21,800
                        
                        
                           
                           
                               SUBTOTAL MOBILIZATION
                           
                           
                              2,469,310
                           
                           
                              2,469,310
                           
                        
                        
                           
                           
                           
                           
                        
                        
                           
                           
                              TRAINING AND RECRUITING
                           
                           
                           
                        
                        
                           340
                           OFFICER ACQUISITION
                           206,282
                           206,282
                        
                        
                           350
                           RECRUIT TRAINING
                           18,748
                           23,048
                        
                        
                           
                            Sea Cadets
                           
                           [4,300]
                        
                        
                           360
                           RESERVE OFFICERS TRAINING CORPS
                           169,044
                           169,044
                        
                        
                           370
                           SPECIALIZED SKILL TRAINING
                           1,236,735
                           1,236,735
                        
                        
                           380
                           PROFESSIONAL DEVELOPMENT EDUCATION
                           357,317
                           357,317
                        
                        
                           390
                           TRAINING SUPPORT
                           434,173
                           434,173
                        
                        
                           400
                           RECRUITING AND ADVERTISING
                           281,107
                           281,107
                        
                        
                           410
                           OFF-DUTY AND VOLUNTARY EDUCATION
                           77,223
                           77,223
                        
                        
                           420
                           CIVILIAN EDUCATION AND TRAINING
                           73,510
                           73,510
                        
                        
                           430
                           JUNIOR ROTC
                           59,649
                           59,649
                        
                        
                           
                           
                               SUBTOTAL TRAINING AND RECRUITING
                           
                           
                              2,913,788
                           
                           
                              2,918,088
                           
                        
                        
                           
                           
                           
                           
                        
                        
                           
                           
                              ADMINISTRATION AND SERVICE-WIDE ACTIVITIES
                           
                           
                           
                        
                        
                           440
                           ADMINISTRATION
                           1,453,465
                           1,378,965
                        
                        
                           
                            Program decrease
                           
                           [–74,500]
                        
                        
                           450
                           CIVILIAN MANPOWER AND PERSONNEL MANAGEMENT
                           252,723
                           252,723
                        
                        
                           460
                           MILITARY MANPOWER AND PERSONNEL MANAGEMENT
                           729,351
                           729,351
                        
                        
                           470
                           MEDICAL ACTIVITIES
                           324,055
                           289,055
                        
                        
                           
                            Historical underexecution
                           
                           [–35,000]
                        
                        
                           480
                           DEF ACQUISITION WORKFORCE DEVELOPMENT ACCOUNT
                           69,348
                           69,348
                        
                        
                           490
                           SERVICEWIDE TRANSPORTATION
                           275,379
                           275,379
                        
                        
                           510
                           PLANNING, ENGINEERING, AND PROGRAM SUPPORT
                           609,648
                           607,148
                        
                        
                           
                            Program decrease
                           
                           [–2,500]
                        
                        
                           520
                           ACQUISITION, LOGISTICS, AND OVERSIGHT
                           869,350
                           829,350
                        
                        
                           
                            Historical underexecution
                           
                           [–40,000]
                        
                        
                           530
                           INVESTIGATIVE AND SECURITY SERVICES
                           980,857
                           980,857
                        
                        
                           810A
                           CLASSIFIED PROGRAMS
                           656,005
                           656,005
                        
                        
                           
                           
                               SUBTOTAL ADMINISTRATION AND SERVICE-WIDE ACTIVITIES
                           
                           
                              6,220,181
                           
                           
                              6,068,181
                           
                        
                        
                           
                           
                           
                           
                        
                        
                           
                           
                               TOTAL OPERATION AND MAINTENANCE, NAVY
                           
                           
                              75,022,582
                           
                           
                              74,959,882
                           
                        
                        
                           
                           
                           
                           
                        
                        
                           
                           
                              OPERATION AND MAINTENANCE, MARINE CORPS
                           
                           
                           
                        
                        
                           
                           
                              OPERATING FORCES
                           
                           
                           
                        
                        
                           010
                           OPERATIONAL FORCES
                           1,848,218
                           1,865,218
                        
                        
                           
                            Historical underexecution
                           
                           [–30,000]
                        
                        
                           
                            INDOPACOM Campaigning
                           
                           [47,000]
                        
                        
                           020
                           FIELD LOGISTICS
                           1,990,769
                           1,988,769
                        
                        
                           
                            Historical underexecution
                           
                           [–2,000]
                        
                        
                           030
                           DEPOT MAINTENANCE
                           241,350
                           241,350
                        
                        
                           040
                           MARITIME PREPOSITIONING
                           176,356
                           176,356
                        
                        
                           060
                           CYBERSPACE ACTIVITIES
                           271,819
                           271,819
                        
                        
                           070
                           SUSTAINMENT, RESTORATION &amp;amp; MODERNIZATION
                           1,304,957
                           1,863,437
                        
                        
                           
                            Barracks 2030
                           
                           [230,480]
                        
                        
                           
                            Quality of Life Initiatives
                           
                           [35,000]
                        
                        
                           
                            USMC Enterprise-Wide Facilities Modernization
                           
                           [293,000]
                        
                        
                           080
                           BASE OPERATING SUPPORT
                           3,035,867
                           3,160,867
                        
                        
                           
                            Barracks 2030
                           
                           [119,000]
                        
                        
                           
                            Program increase
                           
                           [6,000]
                        
                        
                           
                           
                               SUBTOTAL OPERATING FORCES
                           
                           
                              8,869,336
                           
                           
                              9,567,816
                           
                        
                        
                           
                           
                           
                           
                        
                        
                           
                           
                              TRAINING AND RECRUITING
                           
                           
                           
                        
                        
                           090
                           RECRUIT TRAINING
                           26,610
                           26,610
                        
                        
                           100
                           OFFICER ACQUISITION
                           1,418
                           1,418
                        
                        
                           110
                           SPECIALIZED SKILL TRAINING
                           128,502
                           128,502
                        
                        
                           120
                           PROFESSIONAL DEVELOPMENT EDUCATION
                           63,208
                           63,208
                        
                        
                           130
                           TRAINING SUPPORT
                           553,166
                           553,166
                        
                        
                           140
                           RECRUITING AND ADVERTISING
                           237,077
                           237,077
                        
                        
                           150
                           OFF-DUTY AND VOLUNTARY EDUCATION
                           50,000
                           50,000
                        
                        
                           160
                           JUNIOR ROTC
                           30,276
                           30,276
                        
                        
                           
                           
                               SUBTOTAL TRAINING AND RECRUITING
                           
                           
                              1,090,257
                           
                           
                              1,090,257
                           
                        
                        
                           
                           
                           
                           
                        
                        
                           
                           
                              ADMINISTRATION AND SERVICE-WIDE ACTIVITIES
                           
                           
                           
                        
                        
                           180
                           SERVICEWIDE TRANSPORTATION
                           96,528
                           96,528
                        
                        
                           190
                           ADMINISTRATION
                           442,037
                           432,537
                        
                        
                           
                            Program decrease
                           
                           [–9,500]
                        
                        
                           310A
                           CLASSIFIED PROGRAMS
                           64,646
                           64,646
                        
                        
                           
                           
                               SUBTOTAL ADMINISTRATION AND SERVICE-WIDE ACTIVITIES
                           
                           
                              603,211
                           
                           
                              593,711
                           
                        
                        
                           
                           
                           
                           
                        
                        
                           
                           
                               TOTAL OPERATION AND MAINTENANCE, MARINE CORPS
                           
                           
                              10,562,804
                           
                           
                              11,251,784
                           
                        
                        
                           
                           
                           
                           
                        
                        
                           
                           
                              OPERATION AND MAINTENANCE, NAVY RESERVE
                           
                           
                           
                        
                        
                           
                           
                              OPERATING FORCES
                           
                           
                           
                        
                        
                           010
                           MISSION AND OTHER FLIGHT OPERATIONS
                           708,701
                           708,701
                        
                        
                           030
                           AIR SYSTEMS SUPPORT
                           10,250
                           10,250
                        
                        
                           040
                           AIRCRAFT DEPOT MAINTENANCE
                           148,292
                           148,292
                        
                        
                           060
                           AVIATION LOGISTICS
                           33,200
                           33,200
                        
                        
                           070
                           COMBAT COMMUNICATIONS
                           21,211
                           21,211
                        
                        
                           080
                           COMBAT SUPPORT FORCES
                           199,551
                           199,551
                        
                        
                           090
                           CYBERSPACE ACTIVITIES
                           291
                           291
                        
                        
                           100
                           ENTERPRISE INFORMATION
                           33,027
                           33,027
                        
                        
                           110
                           SUSTAINMENT, RESTORATION AND MODERNIZATION
                           50,200
                           50,200
                        
                        
                           120
                           BASE OPERATING SUPPORT
                           119,124
                           119,124
                        
                        
                           
                           
                               SUBTOTAL OPERATING FORCES
                           
                           
                              1,323,847
                           
                           
                              1,323,847
                           
                        
                        
                           
                           
                           
                           
                        
                        
                           
                           
                              ADMINISTRATION AND SERVICE-WIDE ACTIVITIES
                           
                           
                           
                        
                        
                           130
                           ADMINISTRATION
                           2,067
                           2,067
                        
                        
                           140
                           MILITARY MANPOWER AND PERSONNEL MANAGEMENT
                           13,575
                           13,575
                        
                        
                           150
                           ACQUISITION AND PROGRAM MANAGEMENT
                           2,173
                           2,173
                        
                        
                           
                           
                               SUBTOTAL ADMINISTRATION AND SERVICE-WIDE ACTIVITIES
                           
                           
                              17,815
                           
                           
                              17,815
                           
                        
                        
                           
                           
                           
                           
                        
                        
                           
                           
                               TOTAL OPERATION AND MAINTENANCE, NAVY RESERVE
                           
                           
                              1,341,662
                           
                           
                              1,341,662
                           
                        
                        
                           
                           
                           
                           
                        
                        
                           
                           
                              OPERATION AND MAINTENANCE, MARINE CORPS RESERVE
                           
                           
                           
                        
                        
                           
                           
                              OPERATING FORCES
                           
                           
                           
                        
                        
                           010
                           OPERATING FORCES
                           132,907
                           132,907
                        
                        
                           020
                           DEPOT MAINTENANCE
                           22,073
                           22,073
                        
                        
                           030
                           SUSTAINMENT, RESTORATION AND MODERNIZATION
                           47,677
                           47,677
                        
                        
                           040
                           BASE OPERATING SUPPORT
                           122,734
                           122,734
                        
                        
                           
                           
                               SUBTOTAL OPERATING FORCES
                           
                           
                              325,391
                           
                           
                              325,391
                           
                        
                        
                           
                           
                           
                           
                        
                        
                           
                           
                              ADMINISTRATION AND SERVICE-WIDE ACTIVITIES
                           
                           
                           
                        
                        
                           050
                           ADMINISTRATION
                           12,689
                           12,689
                        
                        
                           
                           
                               SUBTOTAL ADMINISTRATION AND SERVICE-WIDE ACTIVITIES
                           
                           
                              12,689
                           
                           
                              12,689
                           
                        
                        
                           
                           
                           
                           
                        
                        
                           
                           
                               TOTAL OPERATION AND MAINTENANCE, MARINE CORPS RESERVE
                           
                           
                              338,080
                           
                           
                              338,080
                           
                        
                        
                           
                           
                           
                           
                        
                        
                           
                           
                              OPERATION AND MAINTENANCE, AIR FORCE
                           
                           
                           
                        
                        
                           
                           
                              OPERATING FORCES
                           
                           
                           
                        
                        
                           010
                           PRIMARY COMBAT FORCES
                           910,849
                           1,026,849
                        
                        
                           
                            INDOPACOM Campaigning
                           
                           [48,000]
                        
                        
                           
                            Restore KC135
                           
                           [68,000]
                        
                        
                           020
                           COMBAT ENHANCEMENT FORCES
                           2,631,887
                           2,641,887
                        
                        
                           
                            Historical underexecution
                           
                           [–10,000]
                        
                        
                           
                            INDOPACOM Campaigning
                           
                           [20,000]
                        
                        
                           030
                           AIR OPERATIONS TRAINING (OJT, MAINTAIN SKILLS)
                           1,526,855
                           1,451,855
                        
                        
                           
                            Historical underexecution
                           
                           [–75,000]
                        
                        
                           040
                           DEPOT PURCHASE EQUIPMENT MAINTENANCE
                           4,862,731
                           4,762,731
                        
                        
                           
                            Historical underexecution
                           
                           [–100,000]
                        
                        
                           050
                           FACILITIES SUSTAINMENT, RESTORATION &amp;amp; MODERNIZATION
                           4,413,268
                           4,520,768
                        
                        
                           
                            Quality of Life Initiatives
                           
                           [107,500]
                        
                        
                           060
                           CYBERSPACE SUSTAINMENT
                           245,330
                           245,330
                        
                        
                           070
                           CONTRACTOR LOGISTICS SUPPORT AND SYSTEM SUPPORT
                           10,100,030
                           10,121,530
                        
                        
                           
                            INDOPACOM Campaigning
                           
                           [21,500]
                        
                        
                           080
                           FLYING HOUR PROGRAM
                           7,010,770
                           6,860,770
                        
                        
                           
                            Historical underexecution
                           
                           [–150,000]
                        
                        
                           090
                           BASE SUPPORT
                           11,449,394
                           11,464,394
                        
                        
                           
                            Program increase
                           
                           [15,000]
                        
                        
                           100
                           GLOBAL C3I AND EARLY WARNING
                           1,294,815
                           1,294,815
                        
                        
                           110
                           OTHER COMBAT OPS SPT PROGRAMS
                           1,840,433
                           1,840,433
                        
                        
                           120
                           CYBERSPACE ACTIVITIES
                           874,283
                           864,283
                        
                        
                           
                            Program decrease
                           
                           [–10,000]
                        
                        
                           140
                           MEDICAL READINESS
                           567,561
                           567,561
                        
                        
                           160
                           US NORTHCOM/NORAD
                           212,311
                           212,311
                        
                        
                           170
                           US STRATCOM
                           524,159
                           524,159
                        
                        
                           190
                           US CENTCOM
                           333,250
                           333,250
                        
                        
                           200
                           US SOCOM
                           28,431
                           28,431
                        
                        
                           210
                           US TRANSCOM
                           681
                           681
                        
                        
                           220
                           CENTCOM CYBERSPACE SUSTAINMENT
                           1,466
                           1,466
                        
                        
                           230
                           USSPACECOM
                           418,153
                           418,153
                        
                        
                           240A
                           CLASSIFIED PROGRAMS
                           1,848,981
                           1,848,981
                        
                        
                           
                           
                               SUBTOTAL OPERATING FORCES
                           
                           
                              51,095,638
                           
                           
                              51,030,638
                           
                        
                        
                           
                           
                           
                           
                        
                        
                           
                           
                              MOBILIZATION
                           
                           
                           
                        
                        
                           250
                           AIRLIFT OPERATIONS
                           3,502,648
                           3,502,648
                        
                        
                           260
                           MOBILIZATION PREPAREDNESS
                           260,168
                           260,168
                        
                        
                           
                           
                               SUBTOTAL MOBILIZATION
                           
                           
                              3,762,816
                           
                           
                              3,762,816
                           
                        
                        
                           
                           
                           
                           
                        
                        
                           
                           
                              TRAINING AND RECRUITING
                           
                           
                           
                        
                        
                           270
                           OFFICER ACQUISITION
                           219,822
                           219,822
                        
                        
                           280
                           RECRUIT TRAINING
                           28,133
                           28,133
                        
                        
                           290
                           RESERVE OFFICERS TRAINING CORPS (ROTC)
                           129,859
                           129,859
                        
                        
                           300
                           SPECIALIZED SKILL TRAINING
                           624,525
                           624,525
                        
                        
                           310
                           FLIGHT TRAINING
                           882,998
                           847,998
                        
                        
                           
                            Historical underexecution
                           
                           [–35,000]
                        
                        
                           320
                           PROFESSIONAL DEVELOPMENT EDUCATION
                           322,278
                           322,278
                        
                        
                           330
                           TRAINING SUPPORT
                           192,028
                           193,028
                        
                        
                           
                            Training Exercise Support—Northern Strike
                           
                           [1,000]
                        
                        
                           340
                           RECRUITING AND ADVERTISING
                           216,939
                           216,939
                        
                        
                           350
                           EXAMINING
                           7,913
                           7,913
                        
                        
                           360
                           OFF-DUTY AND VOLUNTARY EDUCATION
                           255,673
                           255,673
                        
                        
                           370
                           CIVILIAN EDUCATION AND TRAINING
                           361,897
                           361,897
                        
                        
                           380
                           JUNIOR ROTC
                           74,682
                           75,682
                        
                        
                           
                            Program increase
                           
                           [1,000]
                        
                        
                           
                           
                               SUBTOTAL TRAINING AND RECRUITING
                           
                           
                              3,316,747
                           
                           
                              3,283,747
                           
                        
                        
                           
                           
                           
                           
                        
                        
                           
                           
                              ADMINISTRATION AND SERVICE-WIDE ACTIVITIES
                           
                           
                           
                        
                        
                           390
                           LOGISTICS OPERATIONS
                           1,212,268
                           1,206,268
                        
                        
                           
                            Program decrease
                           
                           [–6,000]
                        
                        
                           400
                           TECHNICAL SUPPORT ACTIVITIES
                           175,511
                           175,511
                        
                        
                           410
                           ADMINISTRATION
                           1,381,555
                           1,231,555
                        
                        
                           
                            Historical underexecution
                           
                           [–100,000]
                        
                        
                           
                            Program decrease
                           
                           [–50,000]
                        
                        
                           420
                           SERVICEWIDE COMMUNICATIONS
                           34,913
                           34,913
                        
                        
                           430
                           OTHER SERVICEWIDE ACTIVITIES
                           1,933,264
                           1,933,264
                        
                        
                           440
                           CIVIL AIR PATROL
                           31,520
                           31,520
                        
                        
                           460
                           DEF ACQUISITION WORKFORCE DEVELOPMENT ACCOUNT
                           51,756
                           51,756
                        
                        
                           480
                           INTERNATIONAL SUPPORT
                           93,490
                           93,490
                        
                        
                           480A
                           CLASSIFIED PROGRAMS
                           1,528,256
                           1,528,256
                        
                        
                           
                           
                               SUBTOTAL ADMINISTRATION AND SERVICE-WIDE ACTIVITIES
                           
                           
                              6,442,533
                           
                           
                              6,286,533
                           
                        
                        
                           
                           
                           
                           
                        
                        
                           
                           
                               TOTAL OPERATION AND MAINTENANCE, AIR FORCE
                           
                           
                              64,617,734
                           
                           
                              64,363,734
                           
                        
                        
                           
                           
                           
                           
                        
                        
                           
                           
                              OPERATION AND MAINTENANCE, SPACE FORCE
                           
                           
                           
                        
                        
                           
                           
                              OPERATING FORCES
                           
                           
                           
                        
                        
                           010
                           GLOBAL C3I &amp;amp; EARLY WARNING
                           694,469
                           694,469
                        
                        
                           020
                           SPACE LAUNCH OPERATIONS
                           373,584
                           373,584
                        
                        
                           030
                           SPACE OPERATIONS
                           936,956
                           936,956
                        
                        
                           040
                           EDUCATION &amp;amp; TRAINING
                           235,459
                           235,459
                        
                        
                           060
                           DEPOT MAINTENANCE
                           80,571
                           80,571
                        
                        
                           070
                           FACILITIES SUSTAINMENT, RESTORATION &amp;amp; MODERNIZATION
                           488,709
                           523,709
                        
                        
                           
                            Quality of Life Initiatives
                           
                           [35,000]
                        
                        
                           080
                           CONTRACTOR LOGISTICS AND SYSTEM SUPPORT
                           1,346,611
                           1,346,611
                        
                        
                           090
                           SPACE OPERATIONS -BOS
                           238,717
                           238,717
                        
                        
                           100
                           CYBERSPACE ACTIVITIES
                           139,983
                           139,983
                        
                        
                           100A
                           CLASSIFIED PROGRAMS
                           537,908
                           537,908
                        
                        
                           
                           
                               SUBTOTAL OPERATING FORCES
                           
                           
                              5,072,967
                           
                           
                              5,107,967
                           
                        
                        
                           
                           
                           
                           
                        
                        
                           
                           
                              ADMINISTRATION AND SERVICE-WIDE ACTIVITIES
                           
                           
                           
                        
                        
                           110
                           LOGISTICS OPERATIONS
                           35,313
                           35,313
                        
                        
                           120
                           ADMINISTRATION
                           183,992
                           183,992
                        
                        
                           
                           
                               SUBTOTAL ADMINISTRATION AND SERVICE-WIDE ACTIVITIES
                           
                           
                              219,305
                           
                           
                              219,305
                           
                        
                        
                           
                           
                           
                           
                        
                        
                           
                           
                               TOTAL OPERATION AND MAINTENANCE, SPACE FORCE
                           
                           
                              5,292,272
                           
                           
                              5,327,272
                           
                        
                        
                           
                           
                           
                           
                        
                        
                           
                           
                              OPERATION AND MAINTENANCE, AIR FORCE RESERVE
                           
                           
                           
                        
                        
                           
                           
                              OPERATING FORCES
                           
                           
                           
                        
                        
                           010
                           PRIMARY COMBAT FORCES
                           1,958,968
                           1,958,968
                        
                        
                           020
                           MISSION SUPPORT OPERATIONS
                           177,080
                           177,080
                        
                        
                           030
                           DEPOT PURCHASE EQUIPMENT MAINTENANCE
                           597,172
                           597,172
                        
                        
                           040
                           FACILITIES SUSTAINMENT, RESTORATION &amp;amp; MODERNIZATION
                           123,394
                           123,394
                        
                        
                           050
                           CONTRACTOR LOGISTICS SUPPORT AND SYSTEM SUPPORT
                           601,302
                           601,302
                        
                        
                           060
                           BASE SUPPORT
                           585,943
                           585,943
                        
                        
                           070
                           CYBERSPACE ACTIVITIES
                           2,331
                           2,331
                        
                        
                           
                           
                               SUBTOTAL OPERATING FORCES
                           
                           
                              4,046,190
                           
                           
                              4,046,190
                           
                        
                        
                           
                           
                           
                           
                        
                        
                           
                           
                              ADMINISTRATION AND SERVICE-WIDE ACTIVITIES
                           
                           
                           
                        
                        
                           080
                           ADMINISTRATION
                           92,732
                           92,732
                        
                        
                           090
                           RECRUITING AND ADVERTISING
                           10,855
                           10,855
                        
                        
                           100
                           MILITARY MANPOWER AND PERS MGMT (ARPC)
                           17,188
                           17,188
                        
                        
                           110
                           OTHER PERS SUPPORT (DISABILITY COMP)
                           6,304
                           6,304
                        
                        
                           120
                           AUDIOVISUAL
                           527
                           527
                        
                        
                           
                           
                               SUBTOTAL ADMINISTRATION AND SERVICE-WIDE ACTIVITIES
                           
                           
                              127,606
                           
                           
                              127,606
                           
                        
                        
                           
                           
                           
                           
                        
                        
                           
                           
                               TOTAL OPERATION AND MAINTENANCE, AIR FORCE RESERVE
                           
                           
                              4,173,796
                           
                           
                              4,173,796
                           
                        
                        
                           
                           
                           
                           
                        
                        
                           
                           
                              OPERATION AND MAINTENANCE, AIR NATIONAL GUARD
                           
                           
                           
                        
                        
                           
                           
                              OPERATING FORCES
                           
                           
                           
                        
                        
                           010
                           AIRCRAFT OPERATIONS
                           2,626,498
                           2,626,498
                        
                        
                           020
                           MISSION SUPPORT OPERATIONS
                           649,621
                           649,621
                        
                        
                           030
                           DEPOT PURCHASE EQUIPMENT MAINTENANCE
                           1,004,771
                           1,004,771
                        
                        
                           040
                           FACILITIES SUSTAINMENT, RESTORATION &amp;amp; MODERNIZATION
                           458,917
                           458,917
                        
                        
                           050
                           CONTRACTOR LOGISTICS SUPPORT AND SYSTEM SUPPORT
                           1,353,383
                           1,353,383
                        
                        
                           060
                           BASE SUPPORT
                           1,119,429
                           1,119,429
                        
                        
                           070
                           CYBERSPACE SUSTAINMENT
                           14,291
                           14,291
                        
                        
                           080
                           CYBERSPACE ACTIVITIES
                           57,162
                           57,162
                        
                        
                           
                           
                               SUBTOTAL OPERATING FORCES
                           
                           
                              7,284,072
                           
                           
                              7,284,072
                           
                        
                        
                           
                           
                           
                           
                        
                        
                           
                           
                              ADMINISTRATION AND SERVICE-WIDE ACTIVITIES
                           
                           
                           
                        
                        
                           090
                           ADMINISTRATION
                           71,454
                           71,454
                        
                        
                           100
                           RECRUITING AND ADVERTISING
                           48,245
                           48,245
                        
                        
                           
                           
                               SUBTOTAL ADMINISTRATION AND SERVICE-WIDE ACTIVITIES
                           
                           
                              119,699
                           
                           
                              119,699
                           
                        
                        
                           
                           
                           
                           
                        
                        
                           
                           
                               TOTAL OPERATION AND MAINTENANCE, AIR NATIONAL GUARD
                           
                           
                              7,403,771
                           
                           
                              7,403,771
                           
                        
                        
                           
                           
                           
                           
                        
                        
                           
                           
                              OPERATION AND MAINTENANCE, DEFENSE-WIDE
                           
                           
                           
                        
                        
                           
                           
                              OPERATING FORCES
                           
                           
                           
                        
                        
                           010
                           JOINT CHIEFS OF STAFF
                           461,772
                           438,683
                        
                        
                           
                            Program decrease
                           
                           [–23,089]
                        
                        
                           020
                           JOINT CHIEFS OF STAFF—JTEEP
                           696,446
                           696,446
                        
                        
                           030
                           JOINT CHIEFS OF STAFF—CYBER
                           9,100
                           9,100
                        
                        
                           040
                           OFFICE OF THE SECRETARY OF DEFENSE—MISO
                           253,176
                           253,176
                        
                        
                           050
                           SPECIAL OPERATIONS COMMAND COMBAT DEVELOPMENT ACTIVITIES
                           2,082,777
                           2,082,777
                        
                        
                           060
                           SPECIAL OPERATIONS COMMAND MAINTENANCE
                           1,197,289
                           1,191,289
                        
                        
                           
                            Program decrease
                           
                           [–6,000]
                        
                        
                           070
                           SPECIAL OPERATIONS COMMAND MANAGEMENT/OPERATIONAL HEADQUARTERS
                           203,622
                           203,622
                        
                        
                           080
                           SPECIAL OPERATIONS COMMAND THEATER FORCES
                           3,410,271
                           3,412,271
                        
                        
                           
                            Preservation of the Force, Muscle Activation Technique (MAT Program)
                           
                           [2,000]
                        
                        
                           090
                           SPECIAL OPERATIONS COMMAND CYBERSPACE ACTIVITIES
                           51,263
                           51,263
                        
                        
                           100
                           SPECIAL OPERATIONS COMMAND INTELLIGENCE
                           1,266,217
                           1,266,217
                        
                        
                           110
                           SPECIAL OPERATIONS COMMAND OPERATIONAL SUPPORT
                           1,453,809
                           1,453,809
                        
                        
                           120
                           CYBERSPACE OPERATIONS
                           1,361,360
                           1,361,360
                        
                        
                           130
                           USCYBERCOM HEADQUARTERS
                           344,376
                           344,376
                        
                        
                           
                           
                               SUBTOTAL OPERATING FORCES
                           
                           
                              12,791,478
                           
                           
                              12,764,389
                           
                        
                        
                           
                           
                           
                           
                        
                        
                           
                           
                              TRAINING AND RECRUITING
                           
                           
                           
                        
                        
                           140
                           DEFENSE ACQUISITION UNIVERSITY
                           184,963
                           184,963
                        
                        
                           150
                           JOINT CHIEFS OF STAFF
                           132,101
                           134,601
                        
                        
                           
                            Formerly Used Defense Sites
                           
                           [2,500]
                        
                        
                           160
                           SPECIAL OPERATIONS COMMAND/PROFESSIONAL DEVELOPMENT EDUCATION
                           31,806
                           31,806
                        
                        
                           
                           
                               SUBTOTAL TRAINING AND RECRUITING
                           
                           
                              348,870
                           
                           
                              351,370
                           
                        
                        
                           
                           
                           
                           
                        
                        
                           
                           
                              ADMINISTRATION AND SERVICE-WIDE ACTIVITIES
                           
                           
                           
                        
                        
                           170
                           CIVIL MILITARY PROGRAMS
                           140,375
                           275,375
                        
                        
                           
                            National Guard Youth Challenge
                           
                           [90,000]
                        
                        
                           
                            Program decrease
                           
                           [–5,000]
                        
                        
                           
                            STARBASE
                           
                           [50,000]
                        
                        
                           180
                           DEFENSE CONTRACT AUDIT AGENCY—CYBER
                           4,961
                           4,961
                        
                        
                           190
                           DEFENSE CONTRACT AUDIT AGENCY
                           673,621
                           673,621
                        
                        
                           200
                           DEFENSE CONTRACT MANAGEMENT AGENCY
                           1,543,134
                           1,512,271
                        
                        
                           
                            Program decrease
                           
                           [–30,863]
                        
                        
                           210
                           DEFENSE CONTRACT MANAGEMENT AGENCY—CYBER
                           42,541
                           42,541
                        
                        
                           220
                           DEFENSE COUNTERINTELLIGENCE AND SECURITY AGENCY
                           952,464
                           922,464
                        
                        
                           
                            Program decrease
                           
                           [–30,000]
                        
                        
                           240
                           DEFENSE COUNTERINTELLIGENCE AND SECURITY AGENCY—CYBER
                           9,794
                           9,794
                        
                        
                           250
                           DEFENSE HUMAN RESOURCES ACTIVITY—CYBER
                           39,781
                           39,781
                        
                        
                           260
                           DEFENSE HUMAN RESOURCES ACTIVITY
                           1,104,152
                           1,095,952
                        
                        
                           
                            Program decrease
                           
                           [–8,200]
                        
                        
                           290
                           DEFENSE INFORMATION SYSTEMS AGENCY
                           2,614,041
                           2,594,041
                        
                        
                           
                            Program decrease
                           
                           [–20,000]
                        
                        
                           300
                           DEFENSE INFORMATION SYSTEMS AGENCY—CYBER
                           504,896
                           504,896
                        
                        
                           310
                           DEFENSE LEGAL SERVICES AGENCY
                           207,918
                           176,730
                        
                        
                           
                            Program decrease
                           
                           [–31,188]
                        
                        
                           320
                           DEFENSE LOGISTICS AGENCY
                           412,257
                           391,644
                        
                        
                           
                            Program decrease
                           
                           [–20,613]
                        
                        
                           330
                           DEFENSE MEDIA ACTIVITY
                           244,689
                           244,689
                        
                        
                           340
                           DEFENSE POW/MIA OFFICE
                           188,022
                           188,022
                        
                        
                           350
                           DEFENSE SECURITY COOPERATION AGENCY
                           2,889,957
                           2,389,957
                        
                        
                           
                            Reallocation to INDOPACOM unfunded priorities
                           
                           [–500,000]
                        
                        
                           360
                           DEFENSE TECHNOLOGY SECURITY ADMINISTRATION
                           42,380
                           42,380
                        
                        
                           370
                           DEFENSE THREAT REDUCTION AGENCY
                           858,476
                           808,476
                        
                        
                           
                            Program decrease
                           
                           [–50,000]
                        
                        
                           390
                           DEFENSE THREAT REDUCTION AGENCY—CYBER
                           72,952
                           72,952
                        
                        
                           400
                           DEPARTMENT OF DEFENSE EDUCATION ACTIVITY
                           3,559,288
                           3,629,288
                        
                        
                           
                            Impact Aid
                           
                           [50,000]
                        
                        
                           
                            Impact Aid Students with Disabilities
                           
                           [20,000]
                        
                        
                           410
                           MISSILE DEFENSE AGENCY
                           605,766
                           605,766
                        
                        
                           420
                           OFFICE OF THE LOCAL DEFENSE COMMUNITY COOPERATION
                           117,081
                           117,081
                        
                        
                           460
                           OFFICE OF THE SECRETARY OF DEFENSE—CYBER
                           99,583
                           99,583
                        
                        
                           470
                           OFFICE OF THE SECRETARY OF DEFENSE
                           2,980,715
                           2,543,067
                        
                        
                           
                            1260H List Implementation
                           
                           [5,000]
                        
                        
                           
                            Chief Talent Management Office
                           
                           [10,000]
                        
                        
                           
                            Native American Lands Environmental Mitigation Program 
                           
                           [5,000]
                        
                        
                           
                            Program decrease
                           
                           [–472,648]
                        
                        
                           
                            Readiness and Environmental Protection Initiative 
                           
                           [10,000]
                        
                        
                           
                            Troops to Teachers
                           
                           [5,000]
                        
                        
                           480
                           WASHINGTON HEADQUARTERS SERVICES
                           496,512
                           440,416
                        
                        
                           
                            Program decrease
                           
                           [–56,096]
                        
                        
                           480A
                           CLASSIFIED PROGRAMS
                           20,630,146
                           20,618,264
                        
                        
                           
                            Classified decrease
                           
                           [–10,000]
                        
                        
                           
                            Classified increase
                           
                           [10,000]
                        
                        
                           
                            Program reduction
                           
                           [–11,882]
                        
                        
                           
                           
                               SUBTOTAL ADMINISTRATION AND SERVICE-WIDE ACTIVITIES
                           
                           
                              41,035,502
                           
                           
                              40,044,013
                           
                        
                        
                           
                           
                           
                           
                        
                        
                           
                           
                              UNDISTRIBUTED
                           
                           
                           
                        
                        
                           490
                           UNDISTRIBUTED
                           
                           –624,391
                        
                        
                           
                            Foreign currency fluctuations
                           
                           [–624,391]
                        
                        
                           
                           
                               SUBTOTAL UNDISTRIBUTED
                           
                           
                           
                              –624,391
                           
                        
                        
                           
                           
                           
                           
                        
                        
                           
                           
                               TOTAL OPERATION AND MAINTENANCE, DEFENSE-WIDE
                           
                           
                              54,175,850
                           
                           
                              52,535,382
                           
                        
                        
                           
                           
                           
                           
                        
                        
                           
                           
                              UNITED STATES COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE ARMED FORCES
                           
                           
                           
                        
                        
                           
                           
                              ADMINISTRATION AND ASSOCIATED ACTIVITIES
                           
                           
                           
                        
                        
                           010
                           US COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE ARMED FORCES, DEFENSE
                           21,035
                           21,035
                        
                        
                           
                           
                               SUBTOTAL ADMINISTRATION AND ASSOCIATED ACTIVITIES
                           
                           
                              21,035
                           
                           
                              21,035
                           
                        
                        
                           
                           
                           
                           
                        
                        
                           
                           
                               TOTAL UNITED STATES COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE ARMED FORCES
                           
                           
                              21,035
                           
                           
                              21,035
                           
                        
                        
                           
                           
                           
                           
                        
                        
                           
                           
                              DEPARTMENT OF DEFENSE ACQUISITION WORKFORCE DEVELOPMENT FUND
                           
                           
                           
                        
                        
                           
                           
                              ACQUISITION WORKFORCE DEVELOPMENT
                           
                           
                           
                        
                        
                           010
                           ACQ WORKFORCE DEV FD
                           56,176
                           56,176
                        
                        
                           
                           
                               SUBTOTAL ACQUISITION WORKFORCE DEVELOPMENT
                           
                           
                              56,176
                           
                           
                              56,176
                           
                        
                        
                           
                           
                           
                           
                        
                        
                           
                           
                               TOTAL DEPARTMENT OF DEFENSE ACQUISITION WORKFORCE DEVELOPMENT FUND
                           
                           
                              56,176
                           
                           
                              56,176
                           
                        
                        
                           
                           
                           
                           
                        
                        
                           
                           
                              OVERSEAS HUMANITARIAN, DISASTER, AND CIVIC AID
                           
                           
                           
                        
                        
                           
                           
                              HUMANITARIAN ASSISTANCE
                           
                           
                           
                        
                        
                           010
                           OVERSEAS HUMANITARIAN, DISASTER AND CIVIC AID
                           115,335
                           115,335
                        
                        
                           
                           
                               SUBTOTAL HUMANITARIAN ASSISTANCE
                           
                           
                              115,335
                           
                           
                              115,335
                           
                        
                        
                           
                           
                           
                           
                        
                        
                           
                           
                               TOTAL OVERSEAS HUMANITARIAN, DISASTER, AND CIVIC AID
                           
                           
                              115,335
                           
                           
                              115,335
                           
                        
                        
                           
                           
                           
                           
                        
                        
                           
                           
                              COOPERATIVE THREAT REDUCTION ACCOUNT
                           
                           
                           
                        
                        
                           010
                           COOPERATIVE THREAT REDUCTION
                           350,116
                           350,116
                        
                        
                           
                           
                               SUBTOTAL COOPERATIVE THREAT REDUCTION
                           
                           
                              350,116
                           
                           
                              350,116
                           
                        
                        
                           
                           
                           
                           
                        
                        
                           
                           
                               TOTAL COOPERATIVE THREAT REDUCTION ACCOUNT
                           
                           
                              350,116
                           
                           
                              350,116
                           
                        
                        
                           
                           
                           
                           
                        
                        
                           
                           
                              ENVIRONMENTAL RESTORATION, ARMY
                           
                           
                           
                        
                        
                           
                           
                              DEPARTMENT OF THE ARMY
                           
                           
                           
                        
                        
                           060
                           ENVIRONMENTAL RESTORATION, ARMY
                           268,069
                           268,069
                        
                        
                           
                           
                               SUBTOTAL DEPARTMENT OF THE ARMY
                           
                           
                              268,069
                           
                           
                              268,069
                           
                        
                        
                           
                           
                           
                           
                        
                        
                           
                           
                               TOTAL ENVIRONMENTAL RESTORATION, ARMY
                           
                           
                              268,069
                           
                           
                              268,069
                           
                        
                        
                           
                           
                           
                           
                        
                        
                           
                           
                              ENVIRONMENTAL RESTORATION, NAVY
                           
                           
                           
                        
                        
                           
                           
                              DEPARTMENT OF THE NAVY
                           
                           
                           
                        
                        
                           080
                           ENVIRONMENTAL RESTORATION, NAVY
                           343,591
                           343,591
                        
                        
                           
                           
                               SUBTOTAL DEPARTMENT OF THE NAVY
                           
                           
                              343,591
                           
                           
                              343,591
                           
                        
                        
                           
                           
                           
                           
                        
                        
                           
                           
                               TOTAL ENVIRONMENTAL RESTORATION, NAVY
                           
                           
                              343,591
                           
                           
                              343,591
                           
                        
                        
                           
                           
                           
                           
                        
                        
                           
                           
                              ENVIRONMENTAL RESTORATION, AIR FORCE
                           
                           
                           
                        
                        
                           
                           
                              DEPARTMENT OF THE AIR FORCE
                           
                           
                           
                        
                        
                           100
                           ENVIRONMENTAL RESTORATION, AIR FORCE
                           320,256
                           320,256
                        
                        
                           
                           
                               SUBTOTAL DEPARTMENT OF THE AIR FORCE
                           
                           
                              320,256
                           
                           
                              320,256
                           
                        
                        
                           
                           
                           
                           
                        
                        
                           
                           
                               TOTAL ENVIRONMENTAL RESTORATION, AIR FORCE
                           
                           
                              320,256
                           
                           
                              320,256
                           
                        
                        
                           
                           
                           
                           
                        
                        
                           
                           
                              ENVIRONMENTAL RESTORATION, DEFENSE
                           
                           
                           
                        
                        
                           
                           
                              DEFENSE-WIDE
                           
                           
                           
                        
                        
                           120
                           ENVIRONMENTAL RESTORATION, DEFENSE
                           8,800
                           8,800
                        
                        
                           
                           
                               SUBTOTAL DEFENSE-WIDE
                           
                           
                              8,800
                           
                           
                              8,800
                           
                        
                        
                           
                           
                           
                           
                        
                        
                           
                           
                               TOTAL ENVIRONMENTAL RESTORATION, DEFENSE
                           
                           
                              8,800
                           
                           
                              8,800
                           
                        
                        
                           
                           
                           
                           
                        
                        
                           
                           
                              ENVIRONMENTAL RESTORATION, FORMERLY USED DEFENSE SITES
                           
                           
                           
                        
                        
                           
                           
                              DEFENSE-WIDE
                           
                           
                           
                        
                        
                           140
                           ENVIRONMENTAL RESTORATION FORMERLY USED SITES
                           234,475
                           234,475
                        
                        
                           
                           
                               SUBTOTAL DEFENSE-WIDE
                           
                           
                              234,475
                           
                           
                              234,475
                           
                        
                        
                           
                           
                           
                           
                        
                        
                           
                           
                               TOTAL ENVIRONMENTAL RESTORATION, FORMERLY USED DEFENSE SITES
                           
                           
                              234,475
                           
                           
                              234,475
                           
                        
                        
                           
                           
                           
                           
                        
                        
                           
                           
                               TOTAL OPERATION &amp;amp; MAINTENANCE
                           
                           
                              296,334,504
                           
                           
                              294,996,613
                           
                        
                     
                  
               
            
         
         
            XLIV
            MILITARY PERSONNEL
            
               4401.
               MILITARY PERSONNEL
               
                  
                  
                     
                     
                     
                     
                        
                           
                              SEC. 4401. MILITARY PERSONNEL(In Thousands of Dollars)
                           
                        
                        
                           
                              Item
                           
                           
                              FY 2025 Request
                           
                           
                              House Authorized
                           
                        
                     
                     
                        
                           
                              Military Personnel
                           
                           
                              170,834,234
                           
                           
                              174,664,234
                           
                        
                        
                            BAH Absorption Restoration
                           
                           [1,270,000]
                        
                        
                            Junior enlisted pay increase
                           
                           [3,260,000]
                        
                        
                            Military personnel historical underexecution
                           
                           [–700,000]
                        
                        
                           
                              MERHCF
                           
                           
                              11,046,305
                           
                           
                              11,046,305
                           
                        
                     
                  
               
            
         
         
            XLV
            OTHER AUTHORIZATIONS
            
               4501.
               OTHER AUTHORIZATIONS
               
                  
                  
                     
                     
                     
                     
                        
                           
                              SEC. 4501. OTHER AUTHORIZATIONS(In Thousands of Dollars)
                           
                        
                        
                           
                              Item
                           
                           
                              FY 2025 Request
                           
                           
                              House Authorized
                           
                        
                     
                     
                        
                           
                              WORKING CAPITAL FUND, ARMY
                           
                           
                           
                        
                        
                           WORKING CAPITAL FUND
                           21,776
                           21,776
                        
                        
                           
                              ARMY ARSENALS INITIATIVE
                           
                           
                           
                        
                        
                           SUPPLY MANAGEMENT—ARMY
                           1,828
                           1,828
                        
                        
                           
                               TOTAL WORKING CAPITAL FUND, ARMY
                           
                           
                              23,604
                           
                           
                              23,604
                           
                        
                        
                           
                           
                           
                        
                        
                           
                              WORKING CAPITAL FUND, NAVY
                           
                           
                           
                        
                        
                           
                              SUPPLY MANAGEMENT, NAVY
                           
                           
                           
                        
                        
                           NAVAL SURFACE WARFARE CENTERS
                           30,000
                           30,000
                        
                        
                           
                               TOTAL WORKING CAPITAL FUND, NAVY
                           
                           
                              30,000
                           
                           
                              30,000
                           
                        
                        
                           
                           
                           
                        
                        
                           
                              WORKING CAPITAL FUND, AIR FORCE
                           
                           
                           
                        
                        
                           
                              TRANSPORTATION
                           
                           
                           
                        
                        
                           SUPPLIES AND MATERIALS
                           86,874
                           86,874
                        
                        
                           
                               TOTAL WORKING CAPITAL FUND, AIR FORCE
                           
                           
                              86,874
                           
                           
                              86,874
                           
                        
                        
                           
                           
                           
                        
                        
                           
                              NATIONAL DEFENSE STOCKPILE TRANSACTION FUND
                           
                           
                           
                        
                        
                           DEFENSE STOCKPILE
                           7,629
                           7,629
                        
                        
                           
                               TOTAL NATIONAL DEFENSE STOCKPILE TRANSACTION FUND
                           
                           
                              7,629
                           
                           
                              7,629
                           
                        
                        
                           
                           
                           
                        
                        
                           
                              WORKING CAPITAL FUND, DEFENSE-WIDE
                           
                           
                           
                        
                        
                           DEFENSE AUTOMATION &amp;amp; PRODUCTION SERVICES
                           3
                           3
                        
                        
                           ENERGY MANAGEMENT—DEF
                           2,253
                           2,253
                        
                        
                           
                               TOTAL WORKING CAPITAL FUND, DEFENSE-WIDE
                           
                           
                              2,256
                           
                           
                              2,256
                           
                        
                        
                           
                           
                           
                        
                        
                           
                              WORKING CAPITAL FUND, DEFENSE COMMISSARY AGENCY
                           
                           
                           
                        
                        
                           WORKING CAPITAL FUND, DECA
                           1,570,187
                           1,570,187
                        
                        
                           
                               TOTAL WORKING CAPITAL FUND, DEFENSE COMMISSARY AGENCY
                           
                           
                              1,570,187
                           
                           
                              1,570,187
                           
                        
                        
                           
                           
                           
                        
                        
                           
                              NATIONAL DEFENSE SEALIFT FUND
                           
                           
                           
                        
                        
                           MPF MLP
                           
                           200,000
                        
                        
                            New Sealift funding
                           
                           [200,000]
                        
                        
                           
                               TOTAL NATIONAL DEFENSE SEALIFT FUND
                           
                           
                           
                              200,000
                           
                        
                        
                           
                           
                           
                        
                        
                           
                              CHEMICAL AGENTS AND MUNITIONS DESTRUCTION, DEFENSE
                           
                           
                           
                        
                        
                           CHEM DEMILITARIZATION—O&amp;amp;M
                           20,745
                           20,745
                        
                        
                           CHEM DEMILITARIZATION—RDT&amp;amp;E
                           754,762
                           754,762
                        
                        
                           
                               TOTAL CHEMICAL AGENTS AND MUNITIONS DESTRUCTION, DEFENSE
                           
                           
                              775,507
                           
                           
                              775,507
                           
                        
                        
                           
                           
                           
                        
                        
                           
                              DRUG INTERDICTION AND COUNTER-DRUG ACTIVITIES, DEFENSE
                           
                           
                           
                        
                        
                           COUNTER-NARCOTICS SUPPORT
                           339,292
                           359,292
                        
                        
                            Counter Strategic Competitors in the Western Hemisphere
                           
                           [15,000]
                        
                        
                            Global Trader in the Office of Naval Intelligence Maritime Intelligence Support
                           
                           [5,000]
                        
                        
                           CLASSIFIED PROGRAMS
                           314,410
                           314,410
                        
                        
                           DRUG DEMAND REDUCTION PROGRAM
                           135,567
                           139,567
                        
                        
                            Young Marines
                           
                           [4,000]
                        
                        
                           NATIONAL GUARD COUNTER-DRUG PROGRAM
                           106,043
                           106,043
                        
                        
                           NATIONAL GUARD COUNTER-DRUG SCHOOLS
                           6,167
                           6,167
                        
                        
                           
                               TOTAL DRUG INTERDICTION AND COUNTER-DRUG ACTIVITIES, DEFENSE
                           
                           
                              901,479
                           
                           
                              925,479
                           
                        
                        
                           
                           
                           
                        
                        
                           
                              OFFICE OF THE INSPECTOR GENERAL
                           
                           
                           
                        
                        
                           OFFICE OF THE INSPECTOR GENERAL—O&amp;amp;M
                           542,107
                           542,107
                        
                        
                           OFFICE OF THE INSPECTOR GENERAL—CYBER
                           1,988
                           1,988
                        
                        
                           OFFICE OF THE INSPECTOR GENERAL—RDT&amp;amp;E
                           1,900
                           1,900
                        
                        
                           OFFICE OF THE INSPECTOR GENERAL—PROCUREMENT
                           1,336
                           1,336
                        
                        
                           
                               TOTAL OFFICE OF THE INSPECTOR GENERAL
                           
                           
                              547,331
                           
                           
                              547,331
                           
                        
                        
                           
                           
                           
                        
                        
                           
                              DEFENSE HEALTH PROGRAM
                           
                           
                           
                        
                        
                           IN-HOUSE CARE
                           10,766,432
                           10,766,432
                        
                        
                           PRIVATE SECTOR CARE
                           20,599,128
                           20,599,128
                        
                        
                           CONSOLIDATED HEALTH SUPPORT
                           2,048,030
                           2,048,030
                        
                        
                           INFORMATION MANAGEMENT
                           2,469,204
                           2,469,204
                        
                        
                           MANAGEMENT ACTIVITIES
                           341,254
                           341,254
                        
                        
                           EDUCATION AND TRAINING
                           371,817
                           371,817
                        
                        
                           BASE OPERATIONS/COMMUNICATIONS
                           2,306,692
                           2,306,692
                        
                        
                           R&amp;amp;D RESEARCH
                           41,476
                           46,476
                        
                        
                            Next Generation Blood Products and Platelet Development and Platelet Hemostatic Products
                           
                           [5,000]
                        
                        
                           R&amp;amp;D EXPLORATRY DEVELOPMENT
                           188,564
                           188,564
                        
                        
                           R&amp;amp;D ADVANCED DEVELOPMENT
                           328,825
                           328,825
                        
                        
                           R&amp;amp;D DEMONSTRATION/VALIDATION
                           175,518
                           175,518
                        
                        
                           R&amp;amp;D ENGINEERING DEVELOPMENT
                           130,931
                           130,931
                        
                        
                           R&amp;amp;D MANAGEMENT AND SUPPORT
                           88,425
                           88,425
                        
                        
                           R&amp;amp;D CAPABILITIES ENHANCEMENT
                           18,697
                           18,697
                        
                        
                           PROC INITIAL OUTFITTING
                           23,449
                           23,449
                        
                        
                           PROC REPLACEMENT &amp;amp; MODERNIZATION
                           243,184
                           243,184
                        
                        
                           PROC JOINT OPERATIONAL MEDICINE INFORMATION SYSTEM
                           30,129
                           30,129
                        
                        
                           PROC MILITARY HEALTH SYSTEM—DESKTOP TO DATACENTER
                           75,536
                           75,536
                        
                        
                           PROC DOD HEALTHCARE MANAGEMENT SYSTEM MODERNIZATION
                           26,569
                           26,569
                        
                        
                           
                               TOTAL DEFENSE HEALTH PROGRAM
                           
                           
                              40,273,860
                           
                           
                              40,278,860
                           
                        
                        
                           
                           
                           
                        
                        
                           
                               TOTAL OTHER AUTHORIZATIONS
                           
                           
                              44,218,727
                           
                           
                              44,447,727
                           
                        
                     
                  
               
            
         
         
            XLVI
            MILITARY CONSTRUCTION
            
               4601.
               MILITARY CONSTRUCTION
               
                  
                  
                     
                     
                     
                     
                     
                     
                        
                           
                              SEC. 4601. MILITARY CONSTRUCTION(In Thousands of Dollars)
                           
                        
                        
                           
                              Account
                           
                           
                              State/Country and Installation
                           
                           
                              Project Title
                           
                           
                              FY 2025 Request
                           
                           
                              House Agreement
                           
                        
                     
                     
                        
                           
                           Alabama
                           
                           
                           
                        
                        
                           Army
                           Anniston Army Depot
                           Guided Missile Maintenance Building (Design)
                           0
                           5,300
                        
                        
                           
                           Alaska
                           
                           
                           
                        
                        
                           Army
                           Fort Wainwright
                           Automated Multipurpose Machine Gun Range
                           23,000
                           23,000
                        
                        
                           
                           Belgium
                           
                           
                           
                        
                        
                           Army
                           Shape Headquarters
                           Youth Center
                           45,000
                           45,000
                        
                        
                           
                           California
                           
                           
                           
                        
                        
                           Army
                           Concord
                           Ammunition Holding Facility
                           68,000
                           68,000
                        
                        
                           Army
                           Fort Irwin
                           Training Support Center
                           44,000
                           44,000
                        
                        
                           
                           Florida
                           
                           
                           
                        
                        
                           Army
                           Key West Naval Air Station
                           Joint Inter-Agency Task Force-South Command and Control Facility
                           0
                           90,000
                        
                        
                           
                           Germany
                           
                           
                           
                        
                        
                           Army
                           U.S. Army Garrison Rheinland-Pfalz
                           Barracks
                           61,000
                           61,000
                        
                        
                           Army
                           U.S. Army Garrison Ansbach
                           Barracks
                           100,000
                           100,000
                        
                        
                           Army
                           U.S. Army Garrison Ansbach
                           Barracks
                           91,000
                           91,000
                        
                        
                           Army
                           U.S. Army Garrison Bavaria
                           Cost to Complete—Simulations Center
                           35,000
                           35,000
                        
                        
                           Army
                           U.S. Army Garrison Wiesbaden
                           Child Development Center
                           44,000
                           44,000
                        
                        
                           
                           Hawaii
                           
                           
                           
                        
                        
                           Army
                           Wheeler Army Air Field
                           Aircraft Maintenance Hangar
                           231,000
                           36,000
                        
                        
                           
                           Kentucky
                           
                           
                           
                        
                        
                           Army
                           Fort Campbell
                           Automated Record Fire Plus Range
                           11,800
                           11,800
                        
                        
                           
                           Louisiana
                           
                           
                           
                        
                        
                           Army
                           Fort Johnson
                           Barracks
                           117,000
                           22,000
                        
                        
                           
                           Maryland
                           
                           
                           
                        
                        
                           Army
                           Fort Meade
                           Child Development Center
                           46,000
                           46,000
                        
                        
                           
                           Michigan
                           
                           
                           
                        
                        
                           Army
                           Detroit Arsenal
                           Manned/Unmanned Tactical Vehicle Lab
                           37,000
                           37,000
                        
                        
                           
                           Missouri
                           
                           
                           
                        
                        
                           Army
                           Fort Leonard Wood
                           Advanced Individual Training Barracks Complex, Phase 2
                           144,000
                           120,000
                        
                        
                           
                           New York
                           
                           
                           
                        
                        
                           Army
                           Watervliet Arsenal
                           Fire Station
                           53,000
                           53,000
                        
                        
                           
                           North Carolina
                           
                           
                           
                        
                        
                           Army
                           Fort Liberty
                           Child Development Center
                           39,000
                           39,000
                        
                        
                           
                           Pennsylvania
                           
                           
                           
                        
                        
                           Army
                           Letterkenny Army Depot
                           Component Rebuild Shop (INC 1)
                           90,000
                           45,000
                        
                        
                           Army
                           Letterkenny Army Depot
                           Missile/Munitions Distribution Facility
                           62,000
                           62,000
                        
                        
                           
                           Texas
                           
                           
                           
                        
                        
                           Army
                           Fort Bliss
                           Cost to Complete—Rail Yard
                           44,000
                           44,000
                        
                        
                           Army
                           Fort Cavazos
                           Motor Pool #70
                           0
                           69,000
                        
                        
                           Army
                           Fort Cavazos
                           Motor Pool #71
                           0
                           78,000
                        
                        
                           Army
                           Red River Army Depot
                           Vehicle Paint Shop
                           34,000
                           34,000
                        
                        
                           
                           Virginia
                           
                           
                           
                        
                        
                           Army
                           Joint Base Myer-Henderson Hall
                           Barracks
                           180,000
                           180,000
                        
                        
                           Army
                           Joint Base Myer-Henderson Hall
                           Horse Farm Land Acquisition
                           8,500
                           0
                        
                        
                           
                           Washington
                           
                           
                           
                        
                        
                           Army
                           Joint Base Lewis-McChord
                           Barracks
                           161,000
                           40,000
                        
                        
                           Army
                           Joint Base Lewis-McChord
                           Supply Support Activity
                           31,000
                           31,000
                        
                        
                           
                           Worldwide Unspecified
                           
                           
                           
                        
                        
                           Army
                           Unspecified Worldwide Locations
                           Design
                           273,727
                           283,727
                        
                        
                           Army
                           Unspecified Worldwide Locations
                           EDI: Minor Construction
                           14,519
                           14,519
                        
                        
                           Army
                           Unspecified Worldwide Locations
                           Host Nation Support
                           25,000
                           25,000
                        
                        
                           Army
                           Unspecified Worldwide Locations
                           Minor Construction
                           97,000
                           122,000
                        
                        
                           Army
                           Unspecified Worldwide Locations
                           PDI: Design
                           26,011
                           26,011
                        
                        
                           Army
                           Unspecified Worldwide Locations
                           PDI: INDOPACOM Minor Construction Pilot
                           66,600
                           66,600
                        
                        
                           Army
                           Unspecified Worldwide Locations
                           PDI: Minor Construction
                           8,000
                           8,000
                        
                        
                           Army
                           Unspecified Worldwide Locations
                           Unaccompanied Housing (Design)
                           0
                           50,000
                        
                        
                           
                           
                           
                           
                           
                        
                        
                           
                              Military Construction, Army Total
                           
                           
                              2,311,157
                           
                           
                              2,149,957
                           
                        
                        
                           
                           
                           
                           
                           
                        
                        
                           
                           Australia
                           
                           
                           
                        
                        
                           Navy
                           Royal Australian Air Force Base Darwin
                           PDI: Aircraft Maintenance Hangar
                           117,380
                           32,380
                        
                        
                           Navy
                           Royal Australian Air Force Base Darwin
                           PDI: Maintenance Support Facility
                           62,320
                           62,320
                        
                        
                           
                           Florida
                           
                           
                           
                        
                        
                           Navy
                           Cape Canaveral Space Force Station
                           Engineering Test Facility
                           221,060
                           81,060
                        
                        
                           Navy
                           Marine Corps Support Facility Blount Island Command
                           Communications Center &amp;amp; Infrastructure Upgrades (Design)
                           0
                           10,179
                        
                        
                           Navy
                           Naval Air Station Jacksonville
                           Child Development Center (Design)
                           0
                           6,871
                        
                        
                           Navy
                           Naval Air Station Jacksonville
                           F35 Aircraft Engine Repair Facility (Design)
                           0
                           35,701
                        
                        
                           Navy
                           Naval Air Station Pensacola
                           Hurricane Restoration Consolidated a School Dorm (Design)
                           0
                           16,448
                        
                        
                           Navy
                           Naval Air Station Whiting Field
                           Advanced Helicopter Training System Hangar (INC)
                           0
                           98,505
                        
                        
                           Navy
                           Naval Station Mayport
                           Waterfront Emergency Power (Design)
                           0
                           13,065
                        
                        
                           
                           Georgia
                           
                           
                           
                        
                        
                           Navy
                           Naval Submarine Base Kings Bay
                           Trident Refit Facility Expansion (INC)
                           115,000
                           115,000
                        
                        
                           
                           Guam
                           
                           
                           
                        
                        
                           Navy
                           Andersen Air Force Base
                           PDI: Youth Center
                           78,730
                           78,730
                        
                        
                           Navy
                           Joint Region Marianas
                           PDI: Earth Covered Magazines
                           107,439
                           77,439
                        
                        
                           Navy
                           Naval Base Guam
                           PDI: Defense Access Roads III
                           0
                           140,000
                        
                        
                           
                           Hawaii
                           
                           
                           
                        
                        
                           Navy
                           Joint Base Pearl Harbor-Hickam
                           Dry Dock 3 Replacement (INC)
                           1,199,000
                           1,199,000
                        
                        
                           Navy
                           Joint Base Pearl Harbor-Hickam
                           Water Treatment Plant
                           0
                           90,000
                        
                        
                           Navy
                           Marine Corps Base Kaneohe Bay
                           Aircraft Hangar &amp;amp; Parking Apron
                           203,520
                           33,520
                        
                        
                           
                           Maine
                           
                           
                           
                        
                        
                           Navy
                           Naval Shipyard Portsmouth
                           Multi-Mission Dry Dock #1 Extension (INC)
                           400,578
                           400,578
                        
                        
                           
                           Nevada
                           
                           
                           
                        
                        
                           Navy
                           Naval Air Station Fallon
                           Training Range Land Acquisition, Phase 2
                           48,300
                           48,300
                        
                        
                           
                           North Carolina
                           
                           
                           
                        
                        
                           Navy
                           Marine Corps Air Station Cherry Point
                           Aircraft Maintenance Hangar
                           213,520
                           73,520
                        
                        
                           Navy
                           Marine Corps Air Station Cherry Point
                           Composite Repair Facility
                           114,020
                           24,020
                        
                        
                           Navy
                           Marine Corps Air Station Cherry Point
                           F–35 Aircraft Sustainment Ctr (INC)
                           50,000
                           50,000
                        
                        
                           
                           Virginia
                           
                           
                           
                        
                        
                           Navy
                           Joint Expeditionary Base Little Creek-Fort Story
                           Child Development Center (Design)
                           0
                           2,751
                        
                        
                           Navy
                           Naval Air Station Oceana
                           Child Development Center (Design)
                           0
                           4,080
                        
                        
                           Navy
                           Naval Air Station Oceana
                           Unaccompanied Housing (Design)
                           0
                           15,930
                        
                        
                           Navy
                           Naval Weapons Station Yorktown
                           Containerized Long Weapons Storage Magazine
                           52,610
                           52,610
                        
                        
                           Navy
                           Naval Weapons Station Yorktown
                           Conventional Prompt Strike Test Facility
                           47,130
                           47,130
                        
                        
                           Navy
                           Naval Weapons Station Yorktown
                           Cps Weapons Maintenance, OPS &amp;amp; Storage Fac.
                           52,110
                           52,110
                        
                        
                           Navy
                           Norfolk Naval Shipyard
                           Dry Dock 3 Modernization (INC)
                           54,366
                           54,366
                        
                        
                           
                           Washington
                           
                           
                           
                        
                        
                           Navy
                           Naval Base Kitsap-Bangor
                           Launcher Equipment Processing Building
                           200,550
                           45,550
                        
                        
                           Navy
                           Puget Sound Naval Shipyard
                           CVN 78 Aircraft Carrier Electric Upgrades
                           182,200
                           27,200
                        
                        
                           
                           Worldwide Unspecified
                           
                           
                           
                        
                        
                           Navy
                           Unspecified Worldwide Locations
                           Design
                           797,446
                           807,446
                        
                        
                           Navy
                           Unspecified Worldwide Locations
                           DPRI Unspecified Minor Construction
                           21,302
                           31,302
                        
                        
                           Navy
                           Unspecified Worldwide Locations
                           Unaccompanied Housing (Design)
                           0
                           50,000
                        
                        
                           Navy
                           Unspecified Worldwide Locations
                           Unspecified Minor Construction
                           202,318
                           227,318
                        
                        
                           
                           
                           
                           
                           
                        
                        
                           
                              Military Construction, Navy Total
                           
                           
                              4,540,899
                           
                           
                              4,104,429
                           
                        
                        
                           
                           
                           
                           
                           
                        
                        
                           
                           Alaska
                           
                           
                           
                        
                        
                           Air Force
                           Joint Base Elmendorf-Richardson
                           Joint Integrated Test and Training Ctr (INC)
                           126,000
                           126,000
                        
                        
                           
                           Arkansas
                           
                           
                           
                        
                        
                           Air Force
                           Ebbing Air National Guard Base
                           F35: Academic Training Center
                           0
                           73,000
                        
                        
                           
                           California
                           
                           
                           
                        
                        
                           Air Force
                           Beale Air Force Base
                           Multi-Domain Operations Complex
                           0
                           55,000
                        
                        
                           Air Force
                           Vandenberg Space Force Base
                           GBSD Re-Entry Vehicle Facility
                           110,000
                           50,000
                        
                        
                           Air Force
                           Vandenberg Space Force Base
                           Sentinel AETC Formal Training Unit
                           167,000
                           92,000
                        
                        
                           
                           Colorado
                           
                           
                           
                        
                        
                           Air Force
                           Buckley Space Force Base
                           Power Independence, Mission Control Station
                           0
                           57,611
                        
                        
                           
                           Denmark
                           
                           
                           
                        
                        
                           Air Force
                           Royal Danish Air Force Base Karup
                           EDI: DABS-FEV Storage
                           110,000
                           25,000
                        
                        
                           
                           Federated States of Micronesia
                           
                           
                           
                        
                        
                           Air Force
                           Yap International Airport
                           PDI: Runway Extension (INC)
                           96,000
                           96,000
                        
                        
                           
                           Florida
                           
                           
                           
                        
                        
                           Air Force
                           Cape Canaveral Space Force Station
                           Install Wastewater Main, Icbm Road
                           0
                           11,400
                        
                        
                           Air Force
                           Eglin Air Force Base
                           Cost to Complete—LRSO Hardware Software Development Test Facility
                           8,400
                           8,400
                        
                        
                           Air Force
                           Eglin Air Force Base
                           Emso Superiority Complex (Design)
                           0
                           16,900
                        
                        
                           Air Force
                           Eglin Air Force Base
                           Hypersonics Center for Blast, Lethality, and Couple Kinetics Focused Research and Engineering Facilities (Design)
                           0
                           9,600
                        
                        
                           Air Force
                           Eglin Air Force Base
                           Weapons Technology Integration Center (Design)
                           0
                           49,800
                        
                        
                           
                           Georgia
                           
                           
                           
                        
                        
                           Air Force
                           Robins Air Force Base
                           Battle Management Combined OPS Complex (INC)
                           64,000
                           64,000
                        
                        
                           
                           Idaho
                           
                           
                           
                        
                        
                           Air Force
                           Mountain Home Air Force Base
                           Child Development Center
                           40,000
                           40,000
                        
                        
                           
                           Japan
                           
                           
                           
                        
                        
                           Air Force
                           Kadena Air Base
                           PDI: Theater A/C Corrosion Control Ctr (INC 3)
                           132,700
                           132,700
                        
                        
                           
                           Louisiana
                           
                           
                           
                        
                        
                           Air Force
                           Barksdale Air Force Base
                           ADAL Child Development Center
                           0
                           22,000
                        
                        
                           
                           Massachusetts
                           
                           
                           
                        
                        
                           Air Force
                           Hanscom Air Force Base
                           MIT-Ll/Engineering and Prototype Facility (INC)
                           76,000
                           76,000
                        
                        
                           
                           Montana
                           
                           
                           
                        
                        
                           Air Force
                           Malmstrom Air Force Base
                           GBSD Commercial Entrance Control Facility
                           20,000
                           20,000
                        
                        
                           Air Force
                           Malmstrom Air Force Base
                           Weapons Storage &amp;amp; Maintenance Facility (INC)
                           238,000
                           238,000
                        
                        
                           
                           North Carolina
                           
                           
                           
                        
                        
                           Air Force
                           Seymour-Johnson Air Force Base
                           Combat Arms Training &amp;amp; Maintenance Complex
                           0
                           41,000
                        
                        
                           
                           Norway
                           
                           
                           
                        
                        
                           Air Force
                           Royal Norwegian Air Force Base Rygge
                           Cost to Complete—Davs-FEV Storage
                           0
                           8,000
                        
                        
                           Air Force
                           Royal Norwegian Air Force Base Rygge
                           Cost to Complete—Munitions Storage Area
                           0
                           8,000
                        
                        
                           
                           Ohio
                           
                           
                           
                        
                        
                           Air Force
                           Wright-Patterson Air Force Base
                           Advanced Materials Research Laboratory—C2a (Design)
                           0
                           9,000
                        
                        
                           Air Force
                           Wright-Patterson Air Force Base
                           Human Performance Center Laboratory
                           0
                           45,000
                        
                        
                           
                           Oregon
                           
                           
                           
                        
                        
                           Air Force
                           Mountain Home Air Force Base
                           Homeland Defense Over-the-Horizon Radar (INC)
                           198,000
                           198,000
                        
                        
                           
                           Palau
                           
                           
                           
                        
                        
                           Air Force
                           Palau
                           Cost to Complete—PDI: TACMOR Utilities and Infrastructure Support
                           0
                           20,000
                        
                        
                           
                           South Dakota
                           
                           
                           
                        
                        
                           Air Force
                           Ellsworth Air Force Base
                           B–21 ADAL Squadron Operations
                           44,000
                           44,000
                        
                        
                           Air Force
                           Ellsworth Air Force Base
                           B–21 E. Alert Apron Env. Protection Shelters
                           79,000
                           79,000
                        
                        
                           Air Force
                           Ellsworth Air Force Base
                           B–21 N. Env. Protection Shelters (60 Row)
                           54,000
                           54,000
                        
                        
                           Air Force
                           Ellsworth Air Force Base
                           B–21 Weapons Generation Facility (INC)
                           105,000
                           105,000
                        
                        
                           
                           Spain
                           
                           
                           
                        
                        
                           Air Force
                           Morón Air Base
                           Cost to Complete—EDI: Munitions Storage Area
                           0
                           7,000
                        
                        
                           Air Force
                           Naval Station Rota
                           NATO Strategic Airlift Hangar
                           15,200
                           15,200
                        
                        
                           
                           Tennessee
                           
                           
                           
                        
                        
                           Air Force
                           Arnold Air Force Base
                           Add/Altertest Cell Delivery Bay, B880
                           0
                           21,400
                        
                        
                           Air Force
                           Arnold Air Force Base
                           Cooling Water Expansion (Design)
                           0
                           5,500
                        
                        
                           
                           Texas
                           
                           
                           
                        
                        
                           Air Force
                           Dyess Air Force Base
                           B–21 LRS Fuels Administrative Laboratory
                           12,800
                           12,800
                        
                        
                           Air Force
                           Dyess Air Force Base
                           B–21 Refueler Truck Yard
                           18,500
                           18,500
                        
                        
                           Air Force
                           Joint Base San Antonio
                           BMT – Classroom/Dining Facility 4
                           0
                           50,000
                        
                        
                           Air Force
                           Joint Base San Antonio
                           Metc—Barracks/Ships/Dorms #1 (INC)
                           77,000
                           77,000
                        
                        
                           Air Force
                           Laughlin Air Force Base
                           T–7a Ground Based Training System Facility
                           38,000
                           38,000
                        
                        
                           Air Force
                           Laughlin Air Force Base
                           T–7a Unity Maintenance Training Facility
                           18,000
                           18,000
                        
                        
                           
                           United Kingdom
                           
                           
                           
                        
                        
                           Air Force
                           Royal Air Force Fairford
                           Cost to Complete—EDI RADR Storage Facility
                           0
                           20,500
                        
                        
                           Air Force
                           Royal Air Force Lakenheath
                           Cost to Complete—EDI RADR Storage Facility
                           0
                           15,000
                        
                        
                           Air Force
                           Royal Air Force Lakenheath
                           Surety: Barrier Systems
                           185,000
                           185,000
                        
                        
                           Air Force
                           Royal Air Force Mildenhall
                           SOW Campus Infrastructure
                           51,000
                           51,000
                        
                        
                           
                           Utah
                           
                           
                           
                        
                        
                           Air Force
                           Hill Air Force Base
                           Cost to Complete—F–35 T–7a East Campus Infrastructure
                           0
                           28,000
                        
                        
                           Air Force
                           Hill Air Force Base
                           T–7a Depot Maintenance Complex (INC)
                           50,000
                           50,000
                        
                        
                           
                           Virginia
                           
                           
                           
                        
                        
                           Air Force
                           Joint Base Langley-Eustis
                           Dormitory
                           81,000
                           81,000
                        
                        
                           
                           Worldwide Unspecified
                           
                           
                           
                        
                        
                           Air Force
                           Unspecified Worldwide Locations
                           Design
                           439,926
                           449,926
                        
                        
                           Air Force
                           Unspecified Worldwide Locations
                           Unaccompanied Housing (Design)
                           0
                           50,000
                        
                        
                           Air Force
                           Unspecified Worldwide Locations
                           Unspecified Minor Construction
                           129,600
                           154,600
                        
                        
                           
                           Wyoming
                           
                           
                           
                        
                        
                           Air Force
                           F.E. Warren Air Force Base
                           GBSD Consolidated Maintenance Facility
                           194,000
                           54,000
                        
                        
                           Air Force
                           F.E. Warren Air Force Base
                           GBSD Land Acquisition, Phase 2
                           139,000
                           64,000
                        
                        
                           Air Force
                           F.E. Warren Air Force Base
                           GBSD Utility Corridor (INC)
                           70,000
                           70,000
                        
                        
                           
                           
                           
                           
                           
                        
                        
                           
                              Military Construction, Air Force Total
                           
                           
                              3,187,126
                           
                           
                              3,410,837
                           
                        
                        
                           
                           
                           
                           
                           
                        
                        
                           
                           Alabama
                           
                           
                           
                        
                        
                           Def-Wide
                           Anniston Army Depot
                           General Purpose Warehouse (Design)
                           0
                           3,420
                        
                        
                           Def-Wide
                           Anniston Army Depot
                           Power Generation and Microgrid
                           0
                           56,450
                        
                        
                           Def-Wide
                           Anniston Army Depot
                           Small Arms Warehouse (Design)
                           0
                           14,500
                        
                        
                           Def-Wide
                           Redstone Arsenal
                           Ground Test Facility Infrastructure (INC)
                           80,000
                           80,000
                        
                        
                           
                           Alaska
                           
                           
                           
                        
                        
                           Def-Wide
                           Eielson Air Force Base
                           Fuels Operations &amp;amp; Lab Facility
                           14,000
                           14,000
                        
                        
                           Def-Wide
                           Joint Base Elmendorf-Richardson
                           Fuel Facilities
                           55,000
                           55,000
                        
                        
                           
                           Arizona
                           
                           
                           
                        
                        
                           Def-Wide
                           Marine Corps Air Station Yuma
                           SOF Military Free Fall Advanced Train Complex
                           62,000
                           62,000
                        
                        
                           
                           Bahrain
                           
                           
                           
                        
                        
                           Def-Wide
                           Naval Support Activity Bahrain
                           Ground Mounted Solar Photovoltaic System
                           0
                           15,330
                        
                        
                           
                           California
                           
                           
                           
                        
                        
                           Def-Wide
                           Marine Corps Base Camp Pendleton
                           Ambulatory Care Center Add/Alt (Area 53)
                           26,440
                           26,440
                        
                        
                           Def-Wide
                           Marine Corps Base Camp Pendleton
                           Ambulatory Care Center Add/Alt (Area 62)
                           24,930
                           24,930
                        
                        
                           Def-Wide
                           Marine Corps Base Camp Pendleton
                           Ambulatory Care Center Replacement (Area 22)
                           45,040
                           45,040
                        
                        
                           Def-Wide
                           Marine Corps Mountain Warfare Training Center Bridgeport
                           Fuel Facilities
                           19,300
                           19,300
                        
                        
                           Def-Wide
                           Naval Base Coronado
                           SOF Operations Support Facility, Phase 2
                           51,000
                           51,000
                        
                        
                           
                           Colorado
                           
                           
                           
                        
                        
                           Def-Wide
                           Fort Carson
                           Ambulatory Care Center Replacement
                           41,000
                           41,000
                        
                        
                           
                           Cuba
                           
                           
                           
                        
                        
                           Def-Wide
                           Naval Station Guantanamo Bay
                           Ambulatory Care Center Replacement (INC 2)
                           96,829
                           96,829
                        
                        
                           
                           Delaware
                           
                           
                           
                        
                        
                           Def-Wide
                           Major Joseph R. “beau” Biden III National Guard/Reserve Center
                           Microgrid and Backup Power
                           0
                           22,050
                        
                        
                           
                           Florida
                           
                           
                           
                        
                        
                           Def-Wide
                           Hurlburt Field
                           SOF Afsoc Operations Facility
                           14,000
                           14,000
                        
                        
                           
                           Georgia
                           
                           
                           
                        
                        
                           Def-Wide
                           Hunter Army Airfield
                           SOF Consolidated Rigging Facility
                           47,000
                           47,000
                        
                        
                           Def-Wide
                           Hunter Army Airfield
                           SOF Military Working Dog Kennel Facility
                           16,800
                           16,800
                        
                        
                           
                           Germany
                           
                           
                           
                        
                        
                           Def-Wide
                           Spangdahlem Air Base
                           Cost to Complete—Spangdahlem Elem. School Replace
                           6,500
                           6,500
                        
                        
                           
                           Greece
                           
                           
                           
                        
                        
                           Def-Wide
                           Naval Support Activity Souda Bay
                           Advanced Microgrid
                           0
                           42,500
                        
                        
                           
                           Guam
                           
                           
                           
                        
                        
                           Def-Wide
                           Joint Region Marianas
                           Guam High School Temporary Facilities
                           26,000
                           26,000
                        
                        
                           Def-Wide
                           Joint Region Marianas
                           PDI: Gds, Command Center (INC)
                           187,212
                           187,212
                        
                        
                           Def-Wide
                           Joint Region Marianas
                           PDI: Gds, Eiamd, Phase 1 (INC)
                           278,267
                           278,267
                        
                        
                           
                           Illinois
                           
                           
                           
                        
                        
                           Def-Wide
                           Rock Island Arsenal
                           Power Generation and Microgrid
                           0
                           70,480
                        
                        
                           
                           Indiana
                           
                           
                           
                        
                        
                           Def-Wide
                           Camp Atterbury-Muscatatuck
                           Power Generation and Microgrid
                           0
                           39,180
                        
                        
                           
                           Italy
                           
                           
                           
                        
                        
                           Def-Wide
                           Naval Air Station Sigonella
                           Microgrid Control Systems
                           0
                           13,470
                        
                        
                           
                           Japan
                           
                           
                           
                        
                        
                           Def-Wide
                           Camp Fuji
                           Microgrid and Backup Power
                           0
                           45,870
                        
                        
                           Def-Wide
                           Fleet Activities Yokosuka
                           Kinnick High School (INC)
                           40,386
                           40,386
                        
                        
                           Def-Wide
                           Marine Corps Base Camp Smedley D. Butler
                           Kubasaki High School
                           160,000
                           30,000
                        
                        
                           
                           Korea
                           
                           
                           
                        
                        
                           Def-Wide
                           Kunsan Air Base
                           Ambulatory Care Center Replacement
                           64,942
                           64,942
                        
                        
                           
                           Maine
                           
                           
                           
                        
                        
                           Def-Wide
                           Naval Shipyard Portsmouth
                           Power Plant Resiliency Improvements
                           0
                           28,700
                        
                        
                           
                           Maryland
                           
                           
                           
                        
                        
                           Def-Wide
                           Aberdeen Proving Ground
                           Power Generation and Microgrid
                           0
                           30,730
                        
                        
                           Def-Wide
                           Fort Meade
                           NSAW East Campus Building #5 (INC 2)
                           265,000
                           265,000
                        
                        
                           Def-Wide
                           Joint Base Andrews
                           Ambulatory Care Center (INC)
                           15,040
                           15,040
                        
                        
                           Def-Wide
                           Joint Base Andrews
                           Microgrid With Electric Vehicle Charging Infrastructure
                           0
                           17,920
                        
                        
                           Def-Wide
                           Walter Reed National Military Medical Center
                           MEDCEN Addition/Alteration (INC 8)
                           77,651
                           77,651
                        
                        
                           
                           Missouri
                           
                           
                           
                        
                        
                           Def-Wide
                           Whiteman Air Force Base
                           Flightline Fueling Facilities
                           19,500
                           19,500
                        
                        
                           
                           New Jersey
                           
                           
                           
                        
                        
                           Def-Wide
                           Joint Base McGuire-Dix-Lakehurst
                           Microgrid With Electric Vehicle Charging Infrastructure
                           0
                           17,730
                        
                        
                           
                           North Carolina
                           
                           
                           
                        
                        
                           Def-Wide
                           Fort Liberty
                           SOF Arms Room Addition
                           11,800
                           11,800
                        
                        
                           Def-Wide
                           Marine Corps Base Camp Lejeune
                           SOF Armory
                           25,400
                           25,400
                        
                        
                           
                           Ohio
                           
                           
                           
                        
                        
                           Def-Wide
                           Wright-Patterson Air Force Base
                           District Cooling Plant
                           0
                           53,000
                        
                        
                           
                           South Carolina
                           
                           
                           
                        
                        
                           Def-Wide
                           Marine Corps Air Station Beaufort
                           Fuel Pier
                           31,500
                           31,500
                        
                        
                           Def-Wide
                           Marine Corps Recruit Depot Parris Island
                           Ambulatory Care Clinic Replacement (Dental)
                           72,050
                           72,050
                        
                        
                           
                           Texas
                           
                           
                           
                        
                        
                           Def-Wide
                           Naval Air Station Corpus Christi
                           General Purpose Warehouse
                           79,300
                           79,300
                        
                        
                           Def-Wide
                           NSA Texas (Nsat)
                           Cryptologic Center (INC)
                           152,000
                           152,000
                        
                        
                           
                           United Kingdom
                           
                           
                           
                        
                        
                           Def-Wide
                           Royal Air Force Lakenheath
                           Lakenheath High School
                           153,000
                           153,000
                        
                        
                           
                           Virginia
                           
                           
                           
                        
                        
                           Def-Wide
                           Fort Belvoir
                           Defense Health Headquarters
                           225,000
                           225,000
                        
                        
                           Def-Wide
                           Joint Expeditionary Base Little Creek—Fort Story
                           SOF Human Performance Training Center
                           32,000
                           32,000
                        
                        
                           Def-Wide
                           Pentagon
                           Metro Entrance Pedestrian Access Control Pt.
                           36,800
                           36,800
                        
                        
                           
                           Washington
                           
                           
                           
                        
                        
                           Def-Wide
                           Joint Base Lewis-McChord—Gray Army Airfield
                           Power Generation and Microgrid
                           0
                           40,000
                        
                        
                           Def-Wide
                           Naval Air Station Whidbey Island
                           Hydrant Fueling System
                           54,000
                           54,000
                        
                        
                           Def-Wide
                           Naval Magazine Indian Island
                           Backup Power and Microgrid
                           0
                           39,490
                        
                        
                           Def-Wide
                           Naval Undersea Warfare Center Keyport
                           SOF Coldwater Training/Austere Environ. Fac
                           35,000
                           35,000
                        
                        
                           
                           Worldwide Unspecified
                           
                           
                           
                        
                        
                           Def-Wide
                           Unspecified Worldwide Locations
                           Cost to Complete—ERCIP
                           0
                           103,100
                        
                        
                           Def-Wide
                           Unspecified Worldwide Locations
                           Design (Defense-Wide)
                           26,081
                           26,081
                        
                        
                           Def-Wide
                           Unspecified Worldwide Locations
                           Design (DHA)
                           46,751
                           46,751
                        
                        
                           Def-Wide
                           Unspecified Worldwide Locations
                           Design (DLA)
                           105,000
                           105,000
                        
                        
                           Def-Wide
                           Unspecified Worldwide Locations
                           Design (DODEA)
                           7,501
                           7,501
                        
                        
                           Def-Wide
                           Unspecified Worldwide Locations
                           Design (MDA)
                           4,745
                           4,745
                        
                        
                           Def-Wide
                           Unspecified Worldwide Locations
                           Design (NSA)
                           41,928
                           41,928
                        
                        
                           Def-Wide
                           Unspecified Worldwide Locations
                           Design (SOCOM)
                           35,495
                           35,495
                        
                        
                           Def-Wide
                           Unspecified Worldwide Locations
                           Design (TJS)
                           1,964
                           1,964
                        
                        
                           Def-Wide
                           Unspecified Worldwide Locations
                           Design (WHS)
                           1,508
                           1,508
                        
                        
                           Def-Wide
                           Unspecified Worldwide Locations
                           Energy Resilience and Conservation Investment Program
                           636,000
                           0
                        
                        
                           Def-Wide
                           Unspecified Worldwide Locations
                           ERCIP Design
                           96,238
                           96,238
                        
                        
                           Def-Wide
                           Unspecified Worldwide Locations
                           Exercise Related Minor Construction
                           11,146
                           21,785
                        
                        
                           Def-Wide
                           Unspecified Worldwide Locations
                           Unspecified Minor Construction (Defense-Wide)
                           3,000
                           8,000
                        
                        
                           Def-Wide
                           Unspecified Worldwide Locations
                           Unspecified Minor Construction (DHA)
                           18,000
                           18,000
                        
                        
                           Def-Wide
                           Unspecified Worldwide Locations
                           Unspecified Minor Construction (DLA)
                           13,333
                           13,333
                        
                        
                           Def-Wide
                           Unspecified Worldwide Locations
                           Unspecified Minor Construction (DODEA)
                           7,400
                           7,400
                        
                        
                           Def-Wide
                           Unspecified Worldwide Locations
                           Unspecified Minor Construction (MDA)
                           5,277
                           5,277
                        
                        
                           Def-Wide
                           Unspecified Worldwide Locations
                           Unspecified Minor Construction (NSA)
                           6,000
                           6,000
                        
                        
                           Def-Wide
                           Unspecified Worldwide Locations
                           Unspecified Minor Construction (SOCOM)
                           24,109
                           24,109
                        
                        
                           
                           
                           
                           
                           
                        
                        
                           
                              Military Construction, Defense-Wide Total
                           
                           
                              3,733,163
                           
                           
                              3,636,722
                           
                        
                        
                           
                           
                           
                           
                           
                        
                        
                           
                           Worldwide Unspecified
                           
                           
                           
                        
                        
                           NATO
                           NATO Security Investment Program
                           NATO Security Investment Program
                           433864
                           433,864
                        
                        
                           
                           
                           
                           
                           
                        
                        
                           
                              NATO Security Investment Program Total
                           
                           
                              433,864
                           
                           
                              433,864
                           
                        
                        
                           
                           
                           
                           
                           
                        
                        
                           
                           Alaska
                           
                           
                           
                        
                        
                           Army NG
                           Fort Richardson
                           National Guard Readiness Center
                           67000
                           67,000
                        
                        
                           
                           Iowa
                           
                           
                           
                        
                        
                           Army NG
                           Sioux City Armory
                           National Guard Vehicle Maintenance Shop
                           13800
                           13,800
                        
                        
                           
                           Louisiana
                           
                           
                           
                        
                        
                           Army NG
                           Lafayette Readiness Center
                           National Guard Readiness Center
                           33000
                           33,000
                        
                        
                           
                           Michigan
                           
                           
                           
                        
                        
                           Army NG
                           Detroit Olympia
                           Readiness Center Addition/Alteration (Design)
                           0
                           3,400
                        
                        
                           
                           Mississippi
                           
                           
                           
                        
                        
                           Army NG
                           Southaven Readiness Center
                           National Guard Readiness Center
                           33,000
                           33,000
                        
                        
                           
                           Montana
                           
                           
                           
                        
                        
                           Army NG
                           Malta Readiness Center
                           National Guard Vehicle Maintenance Shop
                           14800
                           14,800
                        
                        
                           
                           Nevada
                           
                           
                           
                        
                        
                           Army NG
                           Hawthorne Army Depot
                           Automated Qualification/Training Range
                           18000
                           18,000
                        
                        
                           
                           New Jersey
                           
                           
                           
                        
                        
                           Army NG
                           Vineland
                           National Guard Vehicle Maintenance Shop
                           23000
                           23,000
                        
                        
                           
                           Oklahoma
                           
                           
                           
                        
                        
                           Army NG
                           Shawnee Readiness Center
                           National Guard Readiness Center
                           29000
                           29,000
                        
                        
                           
                           Puerto Rico
                           
                           
                           
                        
                        
                           Army NG
                           Gurabo Readiness Center
                           National Guard Vehicle Maintenance Shop
                           0
                           63,000
                        
                        
                           
                           Utah
                           
                           
                           
                        
                        
                           Army NG
                           Nephi Readiness Center
                           National Guard Vehicle Maintenance Shop
                           20000
                           20,000
                        
                        
                           
                           Washington
                           
                           
                           
                        
                        
                           Army NG
                           Camp Murray
                           National Guard/Reserve Center Building
                           40000
                           40,000
                        
                        
                           
                           Worldwide Unspecified
                           
                           
                           
                        
                        
                           Army NG
                           Unspecified Worldwide Locations
                           Design
                           25529
                           25,529
                        
                        
                           Army NG
                           Unspecified Worldwide Locations
                           Unspecified Minor Construction
                           45000
                           65,000
                        
                        
                           
                           
                           
                           
                           
                        
                        
                           
                              Military Construction, Army National Guard Total
                           
                           
                              362,129
                           
                           
                              448,529
                           
                        
                        
                           
                           
                           
                           
                           
                        
                        
                           
                           California
                           
                           
                           
                        
                        
                           Army Res
                           Bell
                           Army Reserve Training Center
                           0
                           55,000
                        
                        
                           Army Res
                           Camp Parks
                           Advanced Skills Training Barracks
                           42000
                           42,000
                        
                        
                           
                           Georgia
                           
                           
                           
                        
                        
                           Army Res
                           Dobbins Air Reserve Base
                           Army Reserve Center
                           78000
                           78,000
                        
                        
                           
                           Kentucky
                           
                           
                           
                        
                        
                           Army Res
                           Fort Knox
                           Aviation Support Facility
                           0
                           70,000
                        
                        
                           
                           Massachusetts
                           
                           
                           
                        
                        
                           Army Res
                           Devens Reserve Forces Training Area
                           Collective Training Enlisted Barracks
                           0
                           39,000
                        
                        
                           
                           New Jersey
                           
                           
                           
                        
                        
                           Army Res
                           Joint Base McGuire-Dix-Lakehurst
                           Vertical Skills Facility
                           16000
                           16,000
                        
                        
                           
                           Pennsylvania
                           
                           
                           
                        
                        
                           Army Res
                           Wilkes-Barre
                           Area Maintenance Support Activity Equipment
                           22000
                           22,000
                        
                        
                           
                           Puerto Rico
                           
                           
                           
                        
                        
                           Army Res
                           Fort Buchanan
                           Advanced Skills Training Barracks
                           39000
                           39,000
                        
                        
                           
                           Virginia
                           
                           
                           
                        
                        
                           Army Res
                           Richmond
                           Area Maintenance Support Activity/Vms
                           23000
                           23,000
                        
                        
                           
                           Worldwide Unspecified
                           
                           
                           
                        
                        
                           Army Res
                           Unspecified Worldwide Locations
                           Design
                           31508
                           31,508
                        
                        
                           Army Res
                           Unspecified Worldwide Locations
                           Unspecified Minor Construction
                           3524
                           13,524
                        
                        
                           
                           
                           
                           
                           
                        
                        
                           
                              Military Construction, Army Reserve Total
                           
                           
                              255,032
                           
                           
                              429,032
                           
                        
                        
                           
                           
                           
                           
                           
                        
                        
                           
                           Texas
                           
                           
                           
                        
                        
                           N/MC Res
                           Naval Air Station Joint Reserve Base Fort Worth
                           Maintenance Hangar
                           0
                           75,000
                        
                        
                           
                           Washington
                           
                           
                           
                        
                        
                           N/MC Res
                           Joint Base Lewis-McChord
                           Parachute Survival Training Facility
                           26610
                           26,610
                        
                        
                           
                           Worldwide Unspecified
                           
                           
                           
                        
                        
                           N/MC Res
                           Unspecified Worldwide Locations
                           MCNR Design
                           663
                           663
                        
                        
                           N/MC Res
                           Unspecified Worldwide Locations
                           Unspecified Minor Construction
                           0
                           10,000
                        
                        
                           N/MC Res
                           Unspecified Worldwide Locations
                           USMCR Design
                           2556
                           2,556
                        
                        
                           
                           
                           
                           
                           
                        
                        
                           
                              Military Construction, Navy Reserve Total
                           
                           
                              29,829
                           
                           
                              114,829
                           
                        
                        
                           
                           
                           
                           
                           
                        
                        
                           
                           Alaska
                           
                           
                           
                        
                        
                           Air NG
                           Joint Base Elmendorf-Richardson
                           Combat Rescue Helicopter Simulator
                           19,300
                           19,300
                        
                        
                           
                           Arizona
                           
                           
                           
                        
                        
                           Air NG
                           Tucson International Airport
                           Cost to Complete—Base Entry Complex
                           0
                           7,000
                        
                        
                           
                           California
                           
                           
                           
                        
                        
                           Air NG
                           Moffett Air Field
                           Combat Rescue Helicopter Simulator
                           12600
                           12,600
                        
                        
                           
                           Colorado
                           
                           
                           
                        
                        
                           Air NG
                           Buckley Space Force Base
                           Cost to Complete—Corrosion Control Facility
                           0
                           4,000
                        
                        
                           
                           Florida
                           
                           
                           
                        
                        
                           Air NG
                           Jacksonville International Airport
                           F–35 Consolidated Weapons Training
                           26200
                           26,200
                        
                        
                           
                           Hawaii
                           
                           
                           
                        
                        
                           Air NG
                           Hickam Air Force Base
                           Space Control Center
                           36600
                           36,600
                        
                        
                           
                           New Jersey
                           
                           
                           
                        
                        
                           Air NG
                           Atlantic City International Airport
                           F–16 Mission Training Center
                           18000
                           18,000
                        
                        
                           
                           New York
                           
                           
                           
                        
                        
                           Air NG
                           Francis S. Gabreski Airport
                           Combat Rescue Helicopter Simulator
                           14000
                           14,000
                        
                        
                           
                           Ohio
                           
                           
                           
                        
                        
                           Air NG
                           Rickenbacher International Airport
                           Cost to Complete—Small Arms Range
                           0
                           6,000
                        
                        
                           
                           Oregon
                           
                           
                           
                        
                        
                           Air NG
                           Portland International Airport
                           Cost to Complete—Special Tactics Complex – 1
                           0
                           7,000
                        
                        
                           Air NG
                           Portland International Airport
                           Cost to Complete—Special Tactics Complex – 2
                           0
                           5,000
                        
                        
                           Air NG
                           Portland International Airport
                           Cost to Complete—Special Tactics Complex – 3
                           0
                           5,000
                        
                        
                           
                           Texas
                           
                           
                           
                        
                        
                           Air NG
                           Fort Worth
                           C–130J ADAL Fuel Cell Building 1674
                           13,100
                           13,100
                        
                        
                           
                           Worldwide Unspecified
                           
                           
                           
                        
                        
                           Air NG
                           Unspecified Worldwide Locations
                           Design
                           10,792
                           10,792
                        
                        
                           Air NG
                           Unspecified Worldwide Locations
                           Unspecified Minor Construction
                           40,200
                           50,200
                        
                        
                           
                           Wyoming
                           
                           
                           
                        
                        
                           Air NG
                           Cheyenne Regional Airport
                           Cost to Complete—Construct Vm &amp;amp; Age Complex
                           0
                           4,000
                        
                        
                           
                           
                           
                           
                           
                        
                        
                           
                              Military Construction, Air National Guard Total
                           
                           
                              190,792
                           
                           
                              238,792
                           
                        
                        
                           
                           
                           
                           
                           
                              
                           
                        
                        
                           
                           Delaware
                           
                           
                           
                        
                        
                           AF Res
                           Dover Air Force Base
                           512th Operations Group Facility
                           0
                           42,000
                        
                        
                           
                           Georgia
                           
                           
                           
                        
                        
                           AF Res
                           Dobbins Air Reserve Base
                           Security Forces Facility
                           22,000
                           22,000
                        
                        
                           
                           Indiana
                           
                           
                           
                        
                        
                           AF Res
                           Grissom Air Reserve Base
                           Indoor Small Arms Range
                           21,000
                           21,000
                        
                        
                           
                           Ohio
                           
                           
                           
                        
                        
                           AF Res
                           Youngstown Air Reserve Station
                           Base Fire Station
                           25,000
                           25,000
                        
                        
                           
                           Worldwide Unspecified
                           
                           
                           
                        
                        
                           AF Res
                           Unspecified Worldwide Locations
                           Design
                           562
                           562
                        
                        
                           AF Res
                           Unspecified Worldwide Locations
                           Unspecified Minor Construction
                           701
                           10,701
                        
                        
                           
                           
                           
                           
                           
                        
                        
                           
                              Military Construction, Air Force Reserve
                           
                           
                           
                           
                              69,263
                           
                           
                              121,263
                           
                        
                        
                           
                           
                           
                           
                           
                              
                           
                        
                        
                           
                           Belgium
                           
                           
                           
                        
                        
                           FH Con Army
                           Chièvres Air Base
                           Family Housing New Construction (84 Units)
                           100,954
                           50,954
                        
                        
                           
                           Georgia
                           
                           
                           
                        
                        
                           FH Con Army
                           Fort Eisenhower
                           MHPI Restructure—Fort Eisenhower
                           50,000
                           50,000
                        
                        
                           
                           Germany
                           
                           
                           
                        
                        
                           FH Con Army
                           U.S. Army Garrison Rheinland-Pfalz
                           Family Housing Replacement Construction (54 Units)
                           63,246
                           63,246
                        
                        
                           
                           Japan
                           
                           
                           
                        
                        
                           FH Con Army
                           Sagamihara Family Housing Area
                           Family Housing Improvements Construction (35 Units)
                           31,114
                           31,114
                        
                        
                           
                           Worldwide Unspecified
                           
                           
                           
                        
                        
                           FH Con Army
                           Unspecified Worldwide Locations
                           Family Housing Design
                           31,333
                           31,333
                        
                        
                           
                           
                           
                           
                           
                        
                        
                           
                              Family Housing Construction, Army Total
                           
                           
                              276,647
                           
                           
                              226,647
                           
                        
                        
                           
                           
                           
                           
                           
                        
                        
                           
                           Worldwide Unspecified
                           
                           
                           
                        
                        
                           FH Ops Army
                           Unspecified Worldwide Locations
                           Furnishings
                           18,065
                           18,065
                        
                        
                           FH Ops Army
                           Unspecified Worldwide Locations
                           Leased Housing
                           129,703
                           129,703
                        
                        
                           FH Ops Army
                           Unspecified Worldwide Locations
                           Maintenance of Real Property Facilities
                           127,097
                           127,097
                        
                        
                           FH Ops Army
                           Unspecified Worldwide Locations
                           Management Account
                           62,060
                           62,060
                        
                        
                           FH Ops Army
                           Unspecified Worldwide Locations
                           Military Housing Privatization Initiative
                           69,579
                           69,579
                        
                        
                           FH Ops Army
                           Unspecified Worldwide Locations
                           Miscellaneous
                           357
                           357
                        
                        
                           FH Ops Army
                           Unspecified Worldwide Locations
                           Services
                           8,273
                           8,273
                        
                        
                           FH Ops Army
                           Unspecified Worldwide Locations
                           Utilities
                           60,477
                           60,477
                        
                        
                           
                           
                           
                           
                           
                        
                        
                           
                              Family Housing Operation And Maintenance, Army Total
                           
                           
                              475,611
                           
                           
                              475,611
                           
                        
                        
                           
                           
                           
                           
                           
                        
                        
                           
                           Guam
                           
                           
                           
                        
                        
                           FH Con Navy
                           Andersen Air Force Base
                           Replace Andersen Housing, Phase 10 (42 Units)
                           93,112
                           93,112
                        
                        
                           FH Con Navy
                           Andersen Air Force Base
                           Replace Andersen Housing, Phase 9 (136 Units)
                           103,863
                           103,863
                        
                        
                           
                           Japan
                           
                           
                           
                        
                        
                           FH Con Navy
                           Marine Corps Air Station Iwakuni
                           Construction Improvements (64 Units)
                           35,438
                           35,438
                        
                        
                           
                           Worldwide Unspecified
                           
                           
                           
                        
                        
                           FH Con Navy
                           Unspecified Worldwide Locations
                           Design
                           13,329
                           13,329
                        
                        
                           
                           
                           
                           
                           
                        
                        
                           
                              Family Housing Construction, Navy And Marine Corps Total
                           
                           
                              245,742
                           
                           
                              245,742
                           
                        
                        
                           
                           
                           
                           
                           
                        
                        
                           
                           Worldwide Unspecified
                           
                           
                           
                        
                        
                           FH Ops Navy
                           Unspecified Worldwide Locations
                           Furnishings
                           16,839
                           16,839
                        
                        
                           FH Ops Navy
                           Unspecified Worldwide Locations
                           Housing Privatization Support
                           60,283
                           60,283
                        
                        
                           FH Ops Navy
                           Unspecified Worldwide Locations
                           Leasing
                           67,412
                           67,412
                        
                        
                           FH Ops Navy
                           Unspecified Worldwide Locations
                           Maintenance
                           109,504
                           109,504
                        
                        
                           FH Ops Navy
                           Unspecified Worldwide Locations
                           Management
                           61,240
                           61,240
                        
                        
                           FH Ops Navy
                           Unspecified Worldwide Locations
                           Miscellaneous
                           427
                           427
                        
                        
                           FH Ops Navy
                           Unspecified Worldwide Locations
                           Services
                           17,332
                           17,332
                        
                        
                           FH Ops Navy
                           Unspecified Worldwide Locations
                           Utilities
                           44,180
                           44,180
                        
                        
                           
                           
                           
                           
                           
                        
                        
                           
                              Family Housing Operation And Maintenance, Navy And Marine Corps Total
                           
                           
                              377,217
                           
                           
                              377,217
                           
                        
                        
                           
                           
                           
                           
                           
                        
                        
                           
                           Alaska
                           
                           
                           
                        
                        
                           FH Con AF
                           Joint Base Elmendorf-Richardson
                           MHPI Restructure—Jber Phase III
                           120,000
                           120,000
                        
                        
                           
                           Germany
                           
                           
                           
                        
                        
                           FH Con AF
                           Ramstein Air Base
                           Construct 2 Goq Units
                           4,350
                           4,350
                        
                        
                           FH Con AF
                           Ramstein Air Base
                           KMC 02—Construct Two Car Garages (5 Units)
                           1,400
                           1,400
                        
                        
                           
                           Japan
                           
                           
                           
                        
                        
                           FH Con AF
                           Yokota Air Base
                           Family House Improvements 8b West (19 Units)
                           26,242
                           26,242
                        
                        
                           FH Con AF
                           Yokota Air Base
                           Family House Improvements 9, Phase 2 (32 Units)
                           39,000
                           39,000
                        
                        
                           
                           Texas
                           
                           
                           
                        
                        
                           FH Con AF
                           Lackland Air Force Base
                           MHPI Restructure—Lackland
                           24,000
                           24,000
                        
                        
                           
                           Worldwide Unspecified
                           
                           
                           
                        
                        
                           FH Con AF
                           Unspecified Worldwide Locations
                           Design
                           6,557
                           6,557
                        
                        
                           
                           
                           
                           
                           
                        
                        
                           
                              Family Housing Construction, Air Force Total
                           
                           
                              221,549
                           
                           
                              221,549
                           
                        
                        
                           
                           
                           
                           
                           
                        
                        
                           
                           Worldwide Unspecified
                           
                           
                           
                        
                        
                           FH Ops AF
                           Unspecified Worldwide Locations
                           Furnishings
                           24,230
                           24,230
                        
                        
                           FH Ops AF
                           Unspecified Worldwide Locations
                           Housing Privatization Support
                           32,508
                           32,508
                        
                        
                           FH Ops AF
                           Unspecified Worldwide Locations
                           Leasing
                           6278
                           6,278
                        
                        
                           FH Ops AF
                           Unspecified Worldwide Locations
                           Maintenance
                           127023
                           127,023
                        
                        
                           FH Ops AF
                           Unspecified Worldwide Locations
                           Management
                           71384
                           71,384
                        
                        
                           FH Ops AF
                           Unspecified Worldwide Locations
                           Miscellaneous
                           2426
                           2,426
                        
                        
                           FH Ops AF
                           Unspecified Worldwide Locations
                           Services
                           12,446
                           12,446
                        
                        
                           FH Ops AF
                           Unspecified Worldwide Locations
                           Utilities
                           49955
                           49,955
                        
                        
                           
                           
                           
                           
                           
                        
                        
                           
                              Family Housing Operation And Maintenance, Air Force Total
                           
                           
                              326,250
                           
                           
                              326,250
                           
                        
                        
                           
                           
                           
                           
                           
                        
                        
                           
                           Worldwide Unspecified
                           
                           
                           
                        
                        
                           FH Ops DW
                           Unspecified Worldwide Locations
                           Furnishings
                           687
                           687
                        
                        
                           FH Ops DW
                           Unspecified Worldwide Locations
                           Furnishings
                           91
                           91
                        
                        
                           FH Ops DW
                           Unspecified Worldwide Locations
                           Leasing
                           32983
                           32,983
                        
                        
                           FH Ops DW
                           Unspecified Worldwide Locations
                           Leasing
                           13986
                           13,986
                        
                        
                           FH Ops DW
                           Unspecified Worldwide Locations
                           Maintenance
                           36
                           36
                        
                        
                           FH Ops DW
                           Unspecified Worldwide Locations
                           Utilities
                           4358
                           4,358
                        
                        
                           FH Ops DW
                           Unspecified Worldwide Locations
                           Utilities
                           15
                           15
                        
                        
                           
                           
                           
                           
                           
                        
                        
                           
                              Family Housing Operation And Maintenance, Defense-Wide Total
                           
                           
                              52,156
                           
                           
                              52,156
                           
                        
                        
                           
                           
                           
                           
                           
                        
                        
                           
                           Worldwide Unspecified
                           
                           
                           
                        
                        
                           FHIF
                           Unspecified Worldwide Locations
                           Administrative Expenses—FHIF
                           8195
                           8,195
                        
                        
                           
                           
                           
                           
                           
                        
                        
                           
                              DOD Family Housing Improvement Fund Total
                           
                           
                              8,195
                           
                           
                              8,195
                           
                        
                        
                           
                           
                           
                           
                           
                        
                        
                           
                           Worldwide Unspecified
                           
                           
                           
                        
                        
                           UHIF
                           Unspecified Worldwide Locations
                           Administrative Expenses—UHIF
                           497
                           497
                        
                        
                           
                           
                           
                           
                           
                        
                        
                           
                              Unaccompanied Housing Improvement Fund Total
                           
                           
                              497
                           
                           
                              497
                           
                        
                        
                           
                           
                           
                           
                           
                        
                        
                           
                           Worldwide Unspecified
                           
                           
                           
                        
                        
                           BRAC
                           Unspecified Worldwide Locations
                           Base Realignment and Closure
                           212556
                           237,556
                        
                        
                           
                           
                           
                           
                           
                        
                        
                           
                              Base Realignment and Closure—Army Total
                           
                           
                              212,556
                           
                           
                              237,556
                           
                        
                        
                           
                           
                           
                           
                           
                        
                        
                           
                           Worldwide Unspecified
                           
                           
                           
                        
                        
                           BRAC
                           Unspecified Worldwide Locations
                           Base Realignment and Closure
                           111,697
                           136,697
                        
                        
                           
                           
                           
                           
                           
                        
                        
                           
                              Base Realignment and Closure—Navy Total
                           
                           
                              111,697
                           
                           
                              136,697
                           
                        
                        
                           
                           
                           
                           
                           
                        
                        
                           
                           Worldwide Unspecified
                           
                           
                           
                        
                        
                           BRAC
                           Unspecified Worldwide Locations
                           Base Realignment and Closure
                           121952
                           146,952
                        
                        
                           
                           
                           
                           
                           
                        
                        
                           
                              Base Realignment and Closure—Air Force Total
                           
                           
                              121,952
                           
                           
                              146,952
                           
                        
                        
                           
                           
                           
                           
                           
                        
                        
                           
                           Worldwide Unspecified
                           
                           
                           
                        
                        
                           BRAC
                           Unspecified Worldwide Locations
                           INT–4: DLA Activities
                           1756
                           1,756
                        
                        
                           
                           
                           
                           
                           
                        
                        
                           
                              Base Realignment and Closure—Defense-Wide Total
                           
                           
                              1,756
                           
                           
                              1,756
                           
                        
                        
                           
                           
                           
                           
                           
                        
                        
                           
                              Total, Military Construction
                           
                           
                              17,545,079
                           
                           
                              17,545,079
                           
                        
                     
                  
               
            
         
         
            XLVII
            DEPARTMENT OF ENERGY NATIONAL SECURITY PROGRAMS
            
               4701.
               DEPARTMENT OF ENERGY NATIONAL SECURITY PROGRAMS
               
                  
                  
                     
                     
                     
                     
                        
                           
                              SEC. 4701. DEPARTMENT OF ENERGY NATIONAL SECURITY PROGRAMS(In Thousands of Dollars)
                           
                        
                        
                           
                              Program
                           
                           
                              FY 2025 Request
                           
                           
                              House Authorized
                           
                        
                     
                     
                        
                           
                              Discretionary Summary By Appropriation
                           
                           
                           
                        
                        
                           
                              Energy And Water Development, And Related Agencies
                           
                           
                           
                        
                        
                           
                              Appropriation Summary:
                           
                           
                           
                        
                        
                           Nuclear Energy
                           150,000
                           150,000
                        
                        
                           Defense Uranium Enrichment D&amp;amp;D
                           384,957
                           0
                        
                        
                           
                           
                           
                        
                        
                           
                              Atomic Energy Defense Activities
                           
                           
                           
                        
                        
                           
                              National nuclear security administration:
                           
                           
                           
                        
                        
                           Weapons activities
                           19,848,644
                           19,975,644
                        
                        
                           Defense nuclear nonproliferation
                           2,465,108
                           2,445,108
                        
                        
                           Naval reactors
                           2,118,773
                           1,998,773
                        
                        
                           Federal salaries and expenses
                           564,475
                           539,475
                        
                        
                           
                              Total, National Nuclear Security Administration
                           
                           
                              24,997,000
                           
                           
                              24,959,000
                           
                        
                        
                           
                           
                           
                        
                        
                           
                              Environmental and other defense activities:
                           
                           
                           
                        
                        
                           Defense environmental cleanup
                           7,059,695
                           7,019,695
                        
                        
                           Other defense activities
                           1,140,023
                           1,140,023
                        
                        
                           
                              Total, Environmental &amp;amp; other defense activities
                           
                           
                              8,199,718
                           
                           
                              8,159,718
                           
                        
                        
                           
                              Total, Atomic Energy Defense Activities
                           
                           
                              33,196,718
                           
                           
                              33,118,718
                           
                        
                        
                           
                              Total, Discretionary Funding
                           
                           
                              33,731,675
                           
                           
                              33,268,718
                           
                        
                        
                           
                           
                           
                        
                        
                           
                              Nuclear Energy
                           
                           
                           
                        
                        
                           Idaho sitewide safeguards and security
                           150,000
                           150,000
                        
                        
                           
                              Total, Nuclear Energy
                           
                           
                              150,000
                           
                           
                              150,000
                           
                        
                        
                           
                           
                           
                        
                        
                           
                              Defense Uranium Enrichment D&amp;amp;D
                           
                           
                           
                        
                        
                           Defense Uranium Enrichment D&amp;amp;D Program
                           384,957
                           0
                        
                        
                           Program decrease
                           
                           [–384,957]
                        
                        
                           
                              Total, Defense Uranium Enrichment D&amp;amp;D
                           
                           
                              384,957
                           
                           
                              0
                           
                        
                        
                           
                           
                           
                        
                        
                           
                              Stockpile Management
                           
                           
                           
                        
                        
                           
                              Stockpile Major Modernization
                           
                           
                           
                        
                        
                           B61–12 Life Extension Program
                           27,500
                           27,500
                        
                        
                           W88 Alteration Program
                           78,700
                           78,700
                        
                        
                           W80–4 Life Extension Program
                           1,164,750
                           1,164,750
                        
                        
                           W80–4 ALT SLCM
                           0
                           70,000
                        
                        
                           Program increase
                           
                           [70,000]
                        
                        
                           W87–1 Modification Program
                           1,096,033
                           1,096,033
                        
                        
                           W93 Program
                           455,776
                           455,776
                        
                        
                           B61–13
                           16,000
                           16,000
                        
                        
                           
                              Total, Stockpile Major Modernization
                           
                           
                              2,838,759
                           
                           
                              2,908,759
                           
                        
                        
                           
                           
                           
                        
                        
                           
                              Stockpile services
                           
                           
                           
                        
                        
                           Stockpile Sustainment
                           1,356,260
                           1,356,260
                        
                        
                           Weapons Dismantlement and Disposition
                           54,100
                           49,100
                        
                        
                           Program reduction
                           
                           [–5,000]
                        
                        
                           Production Operations
                           816,567
                           816,567
                        
                        
                           Nuclear Enterprise Assurance
                           75,002
                           75,002
                        
                        
                           
                              Subtotal, Stockpile Services
                           
                           
                              2,301,929
                           
                           
                              2,296,929
                           
                        
                        
                           
                              Total, Stockpile Management
                           
                           
                              5,140,688
                           
                           
                              5,205,688
                           
                        
                        
                           
                           
                           
                        
                        
                           
                              Weapons Activities
                           
                           
                           
                        
                        
                           
                              Production Modernization
                           
                           
                           
                        
                        
                           
                              Primary Capability Modernization
                           
                           
                           
                        
                        
                           
                              Plutonium Modernization
                           
                           
                           
                        
                        
                           
                              Los Alamos Plutonium Modernization
                           
                           
                           
                        
                        
                           Los Alamos Plutonium Operations
                           984,611
                           984,611
                        
                        
                           21–D–512 Plutonium Pit Production Project, LANL
                           470,000
                           470,000
                        
                        
                           15–D–302 TA–55 Reinvestments Project, Phase 3, LANL
                           39,475
                           39,475
                        
                        
                           
                              Subtotal, Los Alamos Plutonium Modernization
                           
                           
                              1,494,086
                           
                           
                              1,494,086
                           
                        
                        
                           
                              Savannah River Plutonium Modernization
                           
                           
                           
                        
                        
                           Savannah River Plutonium Operations
                           75,332
                           75,332
                        
                        
                           21–D–511 Savannah River Plutonium Processing Facility, SRS
                           1,200,000
                           1,200,000
                        
                        
                           
                              Subtotal, Savannah River Plutonium Modernization
                           
                           
                              1,275,332
                           
                           
                              1,275,332
                           
                        
                        
                           Enterprise Plutonium Support
                           121,964
                           121,964
                        
                        
                           
                              Total, Plutonium Modernization
                           
                           
                              2,891,382
                           
                           
                              2,891,382
                           
                        
                        
                           
                              High Explosives and Energetics
                           
                           
                           
                        
                        
                           High Explosives &amp;amp; Energetics
                           115,675
                           131,675
                        
                        
                           High Explosives Binder—NNSA UPL
                           
                           [16,000]
                        
                        
                           15–D–301 HE Science &amp;amp; Engineering Facility, PX
                           15,000
                           15,000
                        
                        
                           21–D–510 HE Synthesis Formulation and Production, PX
                           
                           20,000
                        
                        
                           Program increase
                           
                           [20,000]
                        
                        
                           
                              Total, High Explosives and Energetics
                           
                           
                              130,675
                           
                           
                              166,675
                           
                        
                        
                           
                              Total, Primary Capability Modernization
                           
                           
                              3,022,057
                           
                           
                              3,058,057
                           
                        
                        
                           
                           
                           
                        
                        
                           
                              Secondary Capability Modernization
                           
                           
                           
                        
                        
                           Secondary Capability Modernization
                           755,353
                           755,353
                        
                        
                           18–D–690 Lithium Processing Facility, Y–12
                           260,000
                           260,000
                        
                        
                           06–D–141 Uranium Processing Facility, Y–12
                           800,000
                           800,000
                        
                        
                           
                              Total, Secondary Capability Modernization
                           
                           
                              1,815,353
                           
                           
                              1,815,353
                           
                        
                        
                           
                           
                           
                        
                        
                           
                              Tritium and Domestic Uranium Enrichment
                           
                           
                           
                        
                        
                           Tritium and Domestic Uranium Enrichment
                           661,738
                           661,738
                        
                        
                           
                              Total, Tritium and Domestic Uranium Enrichment
                           
                           
                              661,738
                           
                           
                              661,738
                           
                        
                        
                           
                           
                           
                        
                        
                           Non-Nuclear Capability Modernization
                           141,300
                           141,300
                        
                        
                           22–D–513 Power Sources Capability, SNL
                           50,000
                           50,000
                        
                        
                           Warhead Assembly Modernization
                           34,000
                           34,000
                        
                        
                           Capability Based Investments
                           153,244
                           153,244
                        
                        
                           
                              Total, Production Modernization
                           
                           
                              5,877,692
                           
                           
                              5,913,692
                           
                        
                        
                           
                           
                           
                        
                        
                           
                           
                           
                        
                        
                           
                              Stockpile Research, Technology, and Engineering
                           
                           
                           
                        
                        
                           Assessment Science
                           907,333
                           907,333
                        
                        
                           Engineering and Integrated Assessments
                           418,000
                           418,000
                        
                        
                           Inertial Confinement Fusion
                           682,830
                           682,830
                        
                        
                           Weapon Technology and Manufacturing Maturation
                           286,489
                           296,489
                        
                        
                           High Explosives Binder—NNSA UPL
                           
                           [10,000]
                        
                        
                           Advanced Simulation and Computing
                           879,500
                           879,500
                        
                        
                           
                              Total, Stockpile Research, Technology, and Engineering
                           
                           
                              3,174,152
                           
                           
                              3,184,152
                           
                        
                        
                           
                           
                           
                        
                        
                           Academic Programs and Community Support
                           128,188
                           113,188
                        
                        
                           Community Capacity Building Program
                           
                           [–15,000]
                        
                        
                           
                              Total, Academic Programs and Community Support
                           
                           
                              128,188
                           
                           
                              113,188
                           
                        
                        
                           
                           
                           
                        
                        
                           
                              Infrastructure and Operations
                           
                           
                           
                        
                        
                           Operations of facilities
                           1,305,000
                           1,305,000
                        
                        
                           Safety and environmental operations
                           191,958
                           191,958
                        
                        
                           Maintenance and repair of facilities
                           881,000
                           881,000
                        
                        
                           Recapitalization
                           778,408
                           778,408
                        
                        
                           
                              Construction:
                           
                           
                           
                        
                        
                           25–D–511 PULSE New Access, NNSS
                           25,000
                           25,000
                        
                        
                           25–D–510 Plutonium Mission Safety &amp;amp; Quality Building, LANL
                           48,500
                           48,500
                        
                        
                           23–D–517 Electrical Power Capacity Upgrade, LANL
                           70,000
                           70,000
                        
                        
                           24–D–510 Analytic Gas Laboratory, PX
                           
                           36,000
                        
                        
                           Program increase
                           
                           [36,000]
                        
                        
                           
                              Total, Construction
                           
                           
                              143,500
                           
                           
                              179,500
                           
                        
                        
                           
                              Total, Infrastructure and operations
                           
                           
                              3,299,866
                           
                           
                              3,335,866
                           
                        
                        
                           
                           
                           
                        
                        
                           
                              Secure transportation asset
                           
                           
                           
                        
                        
                           Operations and equipment
                           236,160
                           236,160
                        
                        
                           Program direction
                           135,264
                           135,264
                        
                        
                           
                              Total, Secure transportation asset
                           
                           
                              371,424
                           
                           
                              371,424
                           
                        
                        
                           
                           
                           
                        
                        
                           
                              Defense Nuclear Security
                           
                           
                           
                        
                        
                           Operations and Maintenance
                           1,126,000
                           1,121,000
                        
                        
                           Program decrease
                           
                           [–5,000]
                        
                        
                           
                              Construction:
                           
                           
                           
                        
                        
                           17–D–710 West end protected area reduction project, Y–12
                           54,000
                           54,000
                        
                        
                           
                              Total, Defense nuclear security
                           
                           
                              1,180,000
                           
                           
                              1,175,000
                           
                        
                        
                           
                           
                           
                        
                        
                           Information technology and cybersecurity
                           646,000
                           646,000
                        
                        
                           Legacy contractor pensions
                           30,634
                           30,634
                        
                        
                           
                              Total, Weapons Activities
                           
                           
                              19,848,644
                           
                           
                              19,975,644
                           
                        
                        
                           
                           
                           
                        
                        
                           
                           
                           
                        
                        
                           
                              Defense Nuclear Nonproliferation
                           
                           
                           
                        
                        
                           
                              Defense Nuclear Nonproliferation Programs
                           
                           
                           
                        
                        
                           
                              Global material security
                           
                           
                           
                        
                        
                           International nuclear security
                           87,768
                           82,768
                        
                        
                           Program reduction
                           
                           [–5,000]
                        
                        
                           Radiological security
                           260,000
                           260,000
                        
                        
                           Nuclear smuggling detection and deterrence
                           196,096
                           182,096
                        
                        
                           Insufficient justification
                           
                           [–14,000]
                        
                        
                           
                              Total, Global material security
                           
                           
                              543,864
                           
                           
                              524,864
                           
                        
                        
                           
                           
                           
                        
                        
                           
                              Material management and minimization
                           
                           
                           
                        
                        
                           Reactor Conversion and Uranium Supply
                           145,227
                           145,227
                        
                        
                           Plutonium Disposition
                           193,045
                           193,045
                        
                        
                           Nuclear Material Removal and Elimination
                           38,825
                           38,825
                        
                        
                           
                              Total, Material management &amp;amp; minimization
                           
                           
                              377,097
                           
                           
                              377,097
                           
                        
                        
                           
                           
                           
                        
                        
                           Nonproliferation and arms control
                           224,980
                           224,980
                        
                        
                           
                           
                           
                        
                        
                           
                              Defense nuclear nonproliferation R&amp;amp;D
                           
                           
                           
                        
                        
                           Proliferation Detection
                           317,158
                           316,158
                        
                        
                           Arms Control Advancement Initiative
                           
                           [–1,000]
                        
                        
                           Nuclear Detonation Detection
                           323,058
                           323,058
                        
                        
                           Forensics R&amp;amp;D
                           37,759
                           37,759
                        
                        
                           Nonproliferation Stewardship Program
                           124,875
                           124,875
                        
                        
                           
                              Total, Defense nuclear nonproliferation R&amp;amp;D
                           
                           
                              802,850
                           
                           
                              801,850
                           
                        
                        
                           
                           
                           
                        
                        
                           
                              Nonproliferation Construction:
                           
                           
                           
                        
                        
                           18–D–150 Surplus Plutonium Disposition Project, SRS
                           40,000
                           40,000
                        
                        
                           
                              Total, Nonproliferation construction
                           
                           
                              40,000
                           
                           
                              40,000
                           
                        
                        
                           
                              Total, Defense Nuclear Nonproliferation Programs
                           
                           
                              1,988,791
                           
                           
                              1,968,791
                           
                        
                        
                           
                           
                           
                        
                        
                           Legacy contractor pensions
                           7,128
                           7,128
                        
                        
                           Nuclear counterterrorism and incident response program
                           536,189
                           536,189
                        
                        
                           Use of prior-year balances
                           –67,000
                           –67,000
                        
                        
                           
                              Total, Defense Nuclear Nonproliferation
                           
                           
                              2,465,108
                           
                           
                              2,445,108
                           
                        
                        
                           
                              
                           
                           
                              
                           
                           
                              
                           
                        
                        
                           
                           
                           
                        
                        
                           
                              Naval Reactors
                           
                           
                           
                        
                        
                           Naval reactors development
                           868,380
                           848,380
                        
                        
                           Insufficient justification
                           
                           [–20,000]
                        
                        
                           Columbia-Class reactor systems development
                           45,610
                           45,610
                        
                        
                           Naval reactors operations and infrastructure
                           763,263
                           763,263
                        
                        
                           
                              Construction:
                           
                           
                           
                        
                        
                           25–D–530 Naval Examination Acquisition Project
                           45,000
                           45,000
                        
                        
                           22–D–532 KL Security Upgrades
                           41,670
                           41,670
                        
                        
                           14–D–901 Spent Fuel Handling Recapitalization Project, NRF
                           292,002
                           192,002
                        
                        
                           Program reduction
                           
                           [–100,000]
                        
                        
                           
                              Total, Construction
                           
                           
                              378,672
                           
                           
                              278,672
                           
                        
                        
                           Program direction
                           62,848
                           62,848
                        
                        
                           
                              Total, Naval Reactors
                           
                           
                              2,118,773
                           
                           
                              1,998,773
                           
                        
                        
                           
                           
                           
                        
                        
                           
                           
                           
                        
                        
                           
                              Federal Salaries And Expenses
                           
                           
                           
                        
                        
                           Program Direction
                           564,475
                           539,475
                        
                        
                           Program decrease
                           
                           [–5,000]
                        
                        
                           Insufficient justification
                           
                           [–20,000]
                        
                        
                           
                              Total, Office Of The Administrator
                           
                           
                              564,475
                           
                           
                              539,475
                           
                        
                        
                           
                           
                           
                        
                        
                           
                           
                           
                        
                        
                           
                              Defense Environmental Cleanup
                           
                           
                           
                        
                        
                           
                              Closure sites:
                           
                           
                           
                        
                        
                           Closure sites administration
                           1,350
                           1,350
                        
                        
                           
                           
                           
                        
                        
                           
                              Richland:
                           
                           
                           
                        
                        
                           River corridor and other cleanup operations
                           133,000
                           133,000
                        
                        
                           Central plateau remediation
                           773,030
                           773,030
                        
                        
                           Richland community and regulatory support
                           11,130
                           11,130
                        
                        
                           
                              Construction:
                           
                           
                           
                        
                        
                           22–D–401 Eastern Plateau Fire Station
                           13,500
                           13,500
                        
                        
                           22–D–402 L–897, 200 Area Water Treatment Facility
                           7,800
                           7,800
                        
                        
                           23–D–404 181D Export Water System Reconfiguration and Upgrade
                           18,886
                           18,886
                        
                        
                           23–D–405 181B Export Water System Reconfiguration and Upgrade
                           1,168
                           1,168
                        
                        
                           24–D–401 Environmental Restoration Disposal Facility Supercell 11 Expansion Proj
                           25,000
                           25,000
                        
                        
                           
                              Total, Construction—Richland
                           
                           
                              66,354
                           
                           
                              66,354
                           
                        
                        
                           
                              Total, Richland
                           
                           
                              983,514
                           
                           
                              983,514
                           
                        
                        
                           
                           
                           
                        
                        
                           
                              Office of River Protection:
                           
                           
                           
                        
                        
                           Waste Treatment Immobilization Plant Commissioning
                           466,000
                           466,000
                        
                        
                           Rad liquid tank waste stabilization and disposition
                           832,065
                           832,065
                        
                        
                           
                              Construction:
                           
                           
                           
                        
                        
                           01–D–16D High-Level Waste Facility
                           608,100
                           608,100
                        
                        
                           01–D–16E Pretreatment Facility
                           20,000
                           20,000
                        
                        
                           15–D–409 Low Activity Waste Pretreatment System
                           37,500
                           37,500
                        
                        
                           23–D–403, Hanford 200 West Area Tank Farms Risk Management Project
                           37,500
                           37,500
                        
                        
                           
                              Total, Construction—Office of River Protection 
                           
                           
                              703,100
                           
                           
                              703,100
                           
                        
                        
                           
                           
                           
                        
                        
                           
                              Total, Office of River Protection
                           
                           
                              2,001,165
                           
                           
                              2,001,165
                           
                        
                        
                           
                           
                           
                        
                        
                           
                              Idaho National Laboratory:
                           
                           
                           
                        
                        
                           Idaho cleanup and waste disposition
                           430,678
                           430,678
                        
                        
                           Idaho community and regulatory support
                           3,315
                           3,315
                        
                        
                           
                              Construction:
                           
                           
                           
                        
                        
                           22–D–404 Additional ICDF Landfill Disposal Cell and Evaporation Ponds Project
                           25,250
                           25,250
                        
                        
                           
                              Total, Construction—Idaho
                           
                           
                              25,250
                           
                           
                              25,250
                           
                        
                        
                           
                              Total, Idaho National Laboratory
                           
                           
                              459,243
                           
                           
                              459,243
                           
                        
                        
                           
                           
                           
                        
                        
                           
                              NNSA sites and Nevada off-sites
                           
                           
                           
                        
                        
                           Lawrence Livermore National Laboratory
                           1,917
                           1,917
                        
                        
                           LLNL Excess Facilities D&amp;amp;D
                           
                           0
                        
                        
                           
                              Nuclear facility D &amp;amp; D
                           
                           
                           
                        
                        
                           Separations Process Research Unit
                           845
                           845
                        
                        
                           Nevada Site
                           63,377
                           63,377
                        
                        
                           Sandia National Laboratories
                           1,816
                           1,816
                        
                        
                           Los Alamos National Laboratory
                           273,610
                           273,610
                        
                        
                           Los Alamos Excess Facilities D&amp;amp;D
                           1,622
                           1,622
                        
                        
                           
                              Total, NNSA sites and Nevada off-sites
                           
                           
                              343,187
                           
                           
                              343,187
                           
                        
                        
                           
                           
                           
                        
                        
                           
                              Oak Ridge Reservation:
                           
                           
                           
                        
                        
                           OR Nuclear facility D &amp;amp; D
                           342,705
                           342,705
                        
                        
                           
                              Total, OR Nuclear facility D &amp;amp; D
                           
                           
                              342,705
                           
                           
                              342,705
                           
                        
                        
                           
                           
                           
                        
                        
                           U233 Disposition Program
                           60,000
                           60,000
                        
                        
                           OR cleanup and disposition
                           72,000
                           72,000
                        
                        
                           
                              Construction:
                           
                           
                           
                        
                        
                           14–D–403 Outfall 200 Mercury Treatment Facility
                           30,000
                           30,000
                        
                        
                           17–D–401 On-site waste disposal facility
                           40,000
                           40,000
                        
                        
                           
                              Total, Construction—Oak Ridge
                           
                           
                              70,000
                           
                           
                              70,000
                           
                        
                        
                           
                              Total, OR cleanup and waste disposition
                           
                           
                              202,000
                           
                           
                              202,000
                           
                        
                        
                           
                           
                           
                        
                        
                           OR community &amp;amp; regulatory support
                           5,700
                           5,700
                        
                        
                           OR technology development and deployment
                           3,300
                           3,300
                        
                        
                           
                              Total, Oak Ridge Reservation
                           
                           
                              553,705
                           
                           
                              553,705
                           
                        
                        
                           
                           
                           
                        
                        
                           
                              Savannah River Sites:
                           
                           
                           
                        
                        
                           Savannah River risk management operations
                           400,538
                           400,538
                        
                        
                           
                              Construction:
                           
                           
                           
                        
                        
                           19–D–701 SR Security Systems Replacement
                           6,000
                           6,000
                        
                        
                           
                              Total, Savannah River Risk Management Operations
                           
                           
                              406,538
                           
                           
                              406,538
                           
                        
                        
                           
                           
                           
                        
                        
                           SR Community and Regulatory Support
                           5,198
                           5,198
                        
                        
                           Savannah River National Laboratory Operations &amp;amp; Maintenance
                           90,000
                           90,000
                        
                        
                           Radioactive Liquid Tank Waste Stabilization and Disposition
                           971,235
                           981,235
                        
                        
                           Program increase
                           
                           [10,000]
                        
                        
                           
                              Construction:
                           
                           
                           
                        
                        
                           20-D–401 Saltstone Disposal Unit #10, 11, 12
                           82,500
                           82,500
                        
                        
                           
                              Total, Construction—Savannah River sites
                           
                           
                              82,500
                           
                           
                              82,500
                           
                        
                        
                           
                              Total, Savannah River sites
                           
                           
                              1,555,471
                           
                           
                              1,565,471
                           
                        
                        
                           
                           
                           
                        
                        
                           
                              Waste Isolation Pilot Plant
                           
                           
                           
                        
                        
                           Waste Isolation Pilot Plant
                           413,874
                           413,874
                        
                        
                           
                              Construction:
                           
                           
                           
                        
                        
                           15–D–411 Safety significant confinement ventilation system, WIPP
                           10,346
                           10,346
                        
                        
                           15–D–412 Utility Shaft, WIPP
                           1,200
                           1,200
                        
                        
                           
                              Total, Construction—Waste Isolation Pilot Plant
                           
                           
                              11,546
                           
                           
                              11,546
                           
                        
                        
                           
                              Total, Waste Isolation Pilot Plant
                           
                           
                              425,420
                           
                           
                              425,420
                           
                        
                        
                           
                           
                           
                        
                        
                           Program Direction
                           334,958
                           324,958
                        
                        
                           Insufficient justification
                           
                           [–10,000]
                        
                        
                           Program Support
                           105,885
                           65,885
                        
                        
                           Community Capacity Building Program
                           
                           [–40,000]
                        
                        
                           Safeguards and Security
                           265,197
                           265,197
                        
                        
                           Technology Development and Deployment
                           30,600
                           30,600
                        
                        
                           
                              Total, Defense Environmental Cleanup
                           
                           
                              7,059,695
                           
                           
                              7,019,695
                           
                        
                        
                           
                           
                           
                        
                        
                           
                              Other Defense Activities
                           
                           
                           
                        
                        
                           
                              Environment, health, safety and security
                           
                           
                           
                        
                        
                           Environment, health, safety and security
                           141,908
                           141,908
                        
                        
                           Program direction
                           90,555
                           90,555
                        
                        
                           
                              Total, Environment, Health, safety and security
                           
                           
                              232,463
                           
                           
                              232,463
                           
                        
                        
                           
                           
                           
                        
                        
                           
                              Office of Enterprise Assessments
                           
                           
                           
                        
                        
                           Enterprise Assessments
                           30,022
                           30,022
                        
                        
                           Program direction
                           64,132
                           64,132
                        
                        
                           
                              Total, Office of Enterprise Assessments
                           
                           
                              94,154
                           
                           
                              94,154
                           
                        
                        
                           
                           
                           
                        
                        
                           Specialized security activities
                           390,000
                           390,000
                        
                        
                           
                           
                           
                        
                        
                           
                              Office of Legacy Management
                           
                           
                           
                        
                        
                           Legacy management
                           181,289
                           181,289
                        
                        
                           Program direction
                           23,969
                           23,969
                        
                        
                           
                              Total, Office of Legacy Management
                           
                           
                              205,258
                           
                           
                              205,258
                           
                        
                        
                           
                           
                           
                        
                        
                           Defense-related administrative support
                           213,649
                           213,649
                        
                        
                           
                           
                           
                        
                        
                           Office of hearings and appeals
                           4,499
                           4,499
                        
                        
                           
                              Subtotal, Other Defense Activities
                           
                           
                              1,140,023
                           
                           
                              1,140,023
                           
                        
                        
                           
                              Total, Other Defense Activities
                           
                           
                              1,140,023
                           
                           
                              1,140,023
                           
                        
                     
                  
               
            
         
      
   
   
      
         Passed the House of Representatives June 14, 2024.
         KEVIN F. MCCUMBER,
         Clerk.
      
   
